This is Jockel Podcast number 165 with echo Charles and me, Jockel Willick.
Good evening, I've said that war is the ultimate teacher.
And I think it's also true to say that war is the ultimate revealer.
It reveals a side of people that would not normally be allowed to come out.
Because in war there's so much happening, there's so much pressure, there's so much emotion.
So intense and I saw people change and I don't want to make this overly dramatic.
And in most cases I'm not talking about some big dramatic transformation that a person goes through.
But I am talking about changes and the changes were often visible.
Visible things that would be out of character for someone.
They start acting a different way.
Sometimes negative and sometimes positive.
There might be someone who's temper gets quick.
It starts to flare up.
There might be someone that becomes more understanding, more forgiving.
Some people were happier in combat.
And some were just absolutely stressed to the core.
And when I look back now, it becomes very clear that there were some,
I'll call it oscillations in my own attitude.
There were sometimes when I had to real myself in.
I definitely try and stay professional at all times.
That's kind of what I do.
I try to play the game.
I try not to get emotional.
That's just how I try and roll.
But I could feel it sometimes.
Starting to come apart a little bit.
And I would have to breathe mentally, mentally, breathe, consciously.
Pull the pieces back together.
So I don't lose my temper.
I don't lose my composure.
And I know that that's a good quality.
It's one that I saw other leaders in act.
And I thought that that was a positive quality.
And it's one that I tried to emulate.
And I got pretty good at emulating that quality.
But sometimes on deployment, I really had to focus on that.
I had to focus on keeping my composure.
I had to focus on not getting emotional.
I had to detach and tell myself to settle down and keep it together.
And it's not easy to do.
And some people have a hard time doing that.
And they get sure fused and they lose their temper.
The drop of a hat once they're under the stress of sustained combat.
Others will not do that.
Others will go numb.
And they'll just kind of turn off.
And I tried to stay balanced.
Not to completely turn off my emotions, but at the same time not get emotional.
But I had to think about that.
And it consciously think about that.
And there were other things that I noticed about myself,
especially when I look back.
One thing I noticed is that the little things they they really didn't.
Really didn't matter.
Anymore.
They lost things of little importance.
Pretty much lost all importance.
If no one was dead and no one was wounded, then things were going to be okay.
That's how it was for me.
And some people go in the opposite direction.
They start to lose their mind over little, meaningless things.
And what they're doing when they lash out in those situations is that's how they're letting out the.
Seaving all encompassing stress that they're feeling.
Another thing I noticed is that I'm normally.
Very tactful when I communicate with people up and down the chain of command.
And it's pretty natural for me.
I've been doing it for so long.
I'm thinking about what I'm saying.
I'm making sure I'm saying the right things and they're being understood correctly.
I understand the importance of communicating from a leadership perspective.
But during combat deployments, I can tell you I had to think a little bit more.
I had to put a little bit more thought into what I was saying because the urge I was fighting against.
Often was this urge just to be.
Offensively blunt.
Just blunt.
And really even condescending or sarcastic or patronizing or snide or mocking or cutting.
Because there is some level of madness in war.
There just is.
I mean, let's face it.
You're going to go out and you're trying to kill people and they're trying to kill you.
And your friends are trying to kill their friends and their friends are trying to kill your friends.
That's not normal.
That's if you take that out of context, that's just madness.
And that madness in war, it can creep into your head and then very easily it can creep out of your mouth if you let it.
And these were all these types of things that they happen to me.
They happen to everyone.
I think I had a pretty good handle on it.
And some people handle it better.
Some people handle it worse.
The combat situations I was in.
There's people that have gone through infinitely harder combat scenarios for all of mankind from the history of mankind.
Everyone in these situations is going to have to react to them in some way.
Everyone's going to be impacted by that madness of war.
And like I said, they're going to react in different ways depending on who they are depending on their background, depending on their personality.
But the war itself is going to reveal.
It's going to reveal strengths and weaknesses. It's going to reveal fears and regrets.
It's going to reveal ego and selflessness.
And when we see death, when we face death and when our friends and our comrades are wounded and mailed and killed,
that has an effect.
And you might think, how hard do I have to pull in on the reins of my own fury and hatred and murderous thoughts?
When young man after young man is sent home in a flag draped coffin,
I can tell you I had to pull in those reins hard.
And I wasn't alone.
I was surrounded by men with the same vengeful thoughts.
But those thoughts have to be tempered and they have to be controlled or else everything falls apart.
But those thoughts get revealed because of war.
And war reveals things about us that otherwise might slip by.
Things we might not want to share.
Thoughts that we might not even know are a part of us.
But they are a part of us.
And in the end war ultimately reveals who we are.
It reveals our nature.
And thereby reveals human nature itself.
And we can imagine that understanding all these different actions and reactions from your subordinate leaders from your commanders,
from your troops, from yourself.
There is no way to effectively lead without some understanding of all these people and their nature.
People that you must work with in order to accomplish the mission in order to win.
While that is crystal clear in war, it applies to every undertaking.
It applies to everything that you try and do.
Knowing the people you work with, understanding the people you work with, knowing and understanding your enemy,
knowing and understanding yourself.
Knowing and understanding psychology and human nature and the better you can do that.
The better you will perform as a team and as an individual.
Then especially as a leader.
And we spent the last podcast talking about the first part of a book called Psychology for the Fighting Man.
What you should know about yourself and others.
It's a very straightforward book written in 1942, right as World War II was kicking off.
And on the last podcast we covered the early sections in the book about things like putting the right people in the right jobs,
about the importance of training, about the best ways to teach and learn and how to become more efficient.
And today we're going to dive into the second half of the same book, which gets into some incredibly insightful and some incredibly revealing topics.
So let's go back to the book.
Kicking off with this section.
It's actually not the second half of the book.
This is probably the last third of the book that we're getting into.
And let's start off with this section.
That's about morale.
Here we go.
It all depends on the incentives to human action on men's motives on their emotions and how they react to their emotions.
It can be developed in a military unit by the control of those psychological conditions, which determine men's desires and conduct and affect their attitudes toward one another and toward the great undertaking of winning a war.
And we're going to talk about incentives. Some of these are pretty obvious starting off with hunger.
Hunger is a mess called most sure to be heard.
Pain is an alert seldom missed.
The most primitive incentives for action, which man shares with other animals, are his bodily needs.
Hunger thirst sex.
The need for rest when he is tired, the need for activity when rested, the desire to escape from pain, extreme heat, extreme cold, and other intolerable conditions.
It might be possible to control men or animals by the use of these incentives.
You might make a man go hungry until his work is done.
And then let him eat as a reward.
You might make a man fight by lashing him and then letting up on him as a reward for fighting.
But that isn't the way the R Army works.
Whenever possible it supplies enough food and rest to its soldiers and makes other provisions for their comfort so that they stay in good spirits and can do their work well.
But in areas, but in fighting areas it's not always possible to provide these physical comforts.
When food or water is short, when the weather is too hot or too cold, when it becomes impossible to bathe and shave, when bombs and shells drive sleep away.
And fatigue makes a man that makes effort a torture, problems combat morale arise.
And then some other incentive is required beyond their animal need to keep men going to make them determined to keep fighting unto death.
When the primitive needs are no longer enough, it is the social incentives which help a fighting man do his utmost.
There are many social needs here or some of them.
So, interesting way to kick it off.
And those are so obvious, we all know those things.
We all know that we, if we're hungry, we all know if we, we try to escape from pain.
We all know we try and find comfort.
If there's discomfort, I know you especially know that.
But when those things, you can't always provide those things.
And it's, you know what's really interesting.
We're talking about, it's just words, right?
Just words in a book, talking about to make them determined to keep on fighting unto death.
Just words in a book right now.
But if you think about, well, this is World War II, we're getting ready to go and hundreds of thousands of men are going to go and fight unto the death.
And these primitive needs aren't going to be enough to drive.
So here's some social needs that people have.
Number one, desire for social approval, admiration, recognition, and appreciation.
Two, desire for security, safety, escape from danger and disapproval or fears of all kinds.
Number three, the desire for power, mastery, domination, superiority, and self-assertion.
Number four, desire for adventure, new experience, freedom, escape from futility, humdrum.
Number five, desire for personal response, companionship, friendship, love.
Number six, desire to help and protect others, especially the weak and helpless such as children.
Number seven, desire for a successful achievement, completeness, effectiveness, the desire to do a good job.
Number eight, desire to destroy interference with other desires, aggression and rage.
That's a, that's a, it's when you hear when I'm reading that list, I think of little people that I've known and you know what was driving them.
Yeah.
I remember thinking this.
So you think of, you think of the military as a group of people.
Even I do, it's a group, you think of, oh, it's an army, it's a battalion, it's a brigade, it's a company, you think of it as a unit that's working together.
But what I will tell you is these, these desires right here are so important for the conduct of warfare, because when you get down to a battalion level, a company level, a platoon level.
There's individual human beings that are driving that thing forward.
And if you didn't have a leader in charge or it doesn't necessarily have to be the platoon leader, but if you didn't have a platoon sergeant,
if you didn't have someone in that organization, that was going to drive this thing forward, it wouldn't go anywhere.
When we do operations overseas, we'd work with the conventional forces overseas.
There was a guy that was making these things happen.
That had that was driven by these types of things, whether, whether something I wanted to shine and get, get noticed,
then he's going to take his platoon out, or whether he realized, hey, the best thing I can do for survival ability is to get aggressive and go take the fight to the enemy.
All these things you can see where they come into play, and you see the same thing in civilian organizations.
When you see what's driving me, you know, you ever hear the question of like a rich person, whatever that means, but how much is enough, right?
There's very few people that become financially successful, that go, okay, you know what I'm good.
Okay, I've got two houses, three houses. I've got a bunch of really nice cars.
I've got a bunch of money in the bank. I'm good. I'm fine. I'm done.
It doesn't happen very often. The folks that they achieve there, and then they look up and go, wait, I can do some more.
And whether that's, you know, just completing a job, like it says, the desire to do a good job, or the desire to help other people,
hey, the more money I get, the more I can give to other people, like these things are real, and they really drive.
And so when you see a organization get stagnant, you've got to look and say to yourself, which, how can we fuel this desire?
How can we allow this mission to answer some of these desires?
Going back to the book, when a military leader calls a man by name and gives him a simple word of commendation for some task well performed.
He's appealing to at least two or three natural incentives, calling a man by name shows personal interest, which almost every soldier likes.
The commendation is social approval. If the soldier has been feeling insecure, not quite sure of things, then perhaps his sense of security is established by the event of his leaders approval.
He also has assurance that he has accomplished a job well done. That's, think about that.
All it is, and I've talked about that a bunch on here where I say, you know, sometimes leaders don't realize how powerful it is to say, hey, echo really good work on that last video.
People don't realize her. Hey, echo really good job holding security last night on that position.
And I've said it's powerful. Now, it's here's why. Here's some of the things that that feeds that person.
These desires that they want satisfied get fed when a leader steps down and gives a commendation like that.
Back to the book, social approval is a strong mode of inhuman affairs. And in general, praise is much more effective than blame.
The commendation can get results when ballings out fail by ballings out. They mean yelling at people. Reproved tends to leave resentment.
This is so smart. Blame is often, however, effective when used in private and in moderation against a man whose quality of performance is high for you will work hard to avoid such criticism.
Anyways, I had the luxury of oftentimes working with people where if they mess something up, they got in trouble, whatever you didn't need to. I didn't need to do anything.
I could basically say, I heard what happened. And that was enough like they were just never they were never going to stop until they corrected that in my eyes.
Yeah, I could see that. A man wants to count to amount to something to feel that he is worthwhile and appreciated.
Promotion citations and distinctions of all kinds helps serve this purpose.
Fear of the disprovals of others or some other form of punishment works as an incentive, but it is not as good as a steady thing.
Troops coerced into action by snapping, Martinette become anxious, disgruntled jittery. There is a loss in morale and initiative in judgment even in skill.
Men do better in groups whether fighting or working. And one thing that's interesting and we're going to get to there's a section in this part of the book called leadership.
And there's a definite dichotomy and you can hear it here, start to talk about how it sometimes it leans towards the stereotypical military idea of like if I tell you what to do you do it.
But every time it leans towards that, it counters it. It counters it and says, look, if people don't respect you, look, if you're not under people don't understand why they're doing what they're doing.
Like it always comes back to the true leadership, even though it brushes up and it conferses about some of the stereotypical military leadership, it certainly every time counters them with real true leadership.
Back to the book, a soldier's desire to do a good job. His sense of workmanship is helped whenever he can be allowed to understand the nature of the whole undertaking which he is contributing to which he is contributing.
A successful leader never signs tasks blindly when he can reveal their larger purpose.
By allowing his men to see the significance of their own smaller jobs, he dignifies the lesser tasks by relating them to the large one.
This is always make sure your people understand why they're doing what they're doing. That's what it is.
A successful leader never assigns tasks blindly.
He wants to make sure that the subordinates understand the nature of the whole undertaking to which he's contributing. This stuff is so important.
Continuing on, morale is the capacity to stay on the job, especially a long hard job with determination and zest.
It is the opposite of apathy. morale needs good health, physical and mental, unless the body is well and vigorous. It is pretty hard to endure hardship and keep up enthusiasm.
For teaguen, illness, sap, mental vigor and moral strength. The body does influence the mind. You have to hear that? The body does influence the mind.
Yet there is more to morale than that. Men can carry on with strong determination, sometimes even with zest, through injury, disease and physical privation.
For that sort of morale, a man needs self-confidence and conviction. He needs to feel sure of himself and emotionally secure.
While there are no simple rules for obtaining this sense of security and confidence, when the world is blowing up around your ears, some of the conditions that bring it are known.
It helps to have grown up in a home where there is no quarreling or jealousy. It helps to have friends and to be working or fighting in a group.
It is essential for the job to seem important for a community related to some of the incentives to human action.
A thoughtful man may need to see the job in its larger relations to fit into a philosophy of life, to make it a means of satisfying his own code of what is good and desirable.
He may need to take a long range view that extends beyond his own lifetime and perhaps into another world. All incentives to human action are potential morale builders.
There is a back and forth relation between work and morale. Not only does morale make soldiers work in fight, working in fighting, keep up their morale.
Somebody in the last podcast, somebody on Twitter just hammered out quotes from this book.
I was reading them, reading them because I'm reading this whole book and I'm just reading these quotes.
There are so many awesome quotes in this book. You can just make a book of quotes from just this book. That's one of them though.
Not only does morale make soldiers work in fight, working in fighting, keep up their morale. It's 100% true, especially in times of emotional stress as in battle does a man need to be doing things.
As for work alone, men are not naturally lazy. People like to work in forced idolness as a cruel punishment.
It has been shown again and again that persons with useful jobs to do in air raids are unlikely to be afraid of bombs.
They are busy and the morale is good. They carry on because they have important and useful work to do.
Actually, they feel secure. Even in an air raid, which is a strange place to feel secure, it is the same with the train soldier in the midst of combat.
That stuff is brilliant right there. That's brilliant. That's why you have standard operating procedures. That's why you have an immediate action drills when you get attacked by the enemy.
Everyone knows what their job is supposed to be. It doesn't even allow them time to be scared.
I have one parachute failure where I pulled my reserve parachute.
I got to the ground and I got to the ground and I was jumping with at the time.
We were all kind of the same level except for maybe one guy that had a ton of jumps.
But all my friends, all my platoon mates were all pro you pulled your reserve.
I was like, yeah, yeah. They were like, bro, was it sketchy?
I thought about it and said, no, I did what we trained to do. Arch look grab, look grab, pull pull check check.
I did what the procedure says to do. That's what I was thinking about. That's what I was focused on.
That's what I did.
If I didn't have a protocol to follow, it's like my parachute is going to fail.
I'm going to die in 12 seconds or whatever it is.
You're dead in 12 seconds if something good doesn't happen real quick.
It's not even 12 seconds because you're at 2000 feet in your fallen.
Yeah, it's not very much time. You're going to be dead pretty quick as what I'm saying.
Yeah. And I didn't even think about it. And I got to the ground and it wasn't.
It's like my adrenaline didn't even move.
Right.
Because you're doing what you're supposed to do.
Yeah. Like you. And obviously we're thinking about it.
Not in the situation. So yeah, it's all scary.
I mean, you pull one shoot. It doesn't work.
And I'm saying outside of the procedure. You know, I'm saying the facts of the reality of the situation.
You pull one shoot. It doesn't work.
Proof that parachutes don't work to you right then and then that proof.
Oh, if you want to start digging up and you're holding you, you're going to real deep.
That's what I'm talking about.
And then now, guess I'm going to issue two only have left.
One. You already witnessed firsthand one shoot fail.
So far on this parachute jump, you're 100% fail rate.
Your pair of suits.
And only that one more chance.
One love.
Yeah. Within 10 seconds or whatever.
Yeah.
You know, so really your brain is like, yeah, this is it.
You know, if you think of it that way.
But yeah, if your mind is occupied with, okay,
procedure procedure procedure and then you just do do do do.
And then it's like, you don't have time to be scared about anything.
No.
Unless they're, you know, if the second one fails, then it's different.
Obviously, but you know, you, you,
yeah, your mind doesn't have room to start making all these,
these fearful assessments, you know, action.
Taking action is a real positive thing in so many situations when you start
be feeling fear.
You got to do something.
You got to step up and do something.
That's like, you know, in, in like a jujitsu tournament or whatever,
like a competition situation.
Um, I don't want to imagine it be like this.
If you're talking publicly or whatever before you do it,
like, okay, before I want to, I used to compete a lot in jiujitsu before.
I'm like, oh, my gosh, like, your anxious and you just, like,
the feeling beforehand is like way different than when right when he says start.
When you said start, you don't, you're not even interested in the market.
Yeah, which you do every day anyway.
Kind of thing.
And because you know what to do and that's what your mind is on.
You're not feeling like, even though you don't even know this guy.
You never even seen this guy before.
So you don't know what mystery this guy holds, you know?
I'm just saying that's kind of what you're thinking.
It's a four people.
But once you, yeah, for sure, hesitation is the,
is the moment that you have to overcome for fear.
And action will help you do that.
Back to the book.
If an officer wants to assess the morale of his own unit,
there are at least two things for him to do.
He can listen.
Men will talk and permit it or encourage to,
and they will sometimes speak freely.
When they do, they give their leader information.
Not will enable him to answer these questions.
Do the troops feel like they're being well trained.
Well, lead.
Do they think their weapons are adequate?
Do they want to try to get the enemy?
Are they proud of their unit?
Do they have suggestions for its improvement?
Do they have, do they think they get fair treatment?
Fair chances for advancement?
Are they worrying about anything back home?
Or what about what will happen when the war is over?
From the answers to questions like these,
an officer can usually estimate accurately the morale of his unit.
He can also study the behavior of his men.
Are they ready to volunteer for special duty?
Are they frequent violations of discipline?
How many are AWAL?
How many in the guard house?
What is the rate of venereal disease?
How do they receive bad rumors?
Are there many fights and are the fights based on religious or racial differences?
The problem is the primary task of leadership.
Actually, it says a primary task.
The leader, any leader trying to improve the morale of his unit will find these rules helpful.
So, one of the main things you have to do as a leader is keep morale up.
No doubt about that.
If your morale falls apart inside of a team, you're in a bad situation.
And here's some things to help you improve morale.
One, make each man feel he is needed by his unit that his job is important.
Two, never let a man forget that he is a soldier
and that a soldier of the United States Army is an important and respected person.
Three, make it very clear that the unit has its own important function in winning.
The war.
Four, encourage the expression of pride in achievements of the unit.
Five, give commendation and encouragement when it comes in, when it comes in,
sincerely and appropriately be given for fair appreciation.
Usually works better than condemnation.
Six, never belittle or humiliate a man in front of others,
except when a military emergency as in battle may require quick correction.
When the review is necessary, do it in private and make clear, make it clear that it is the act that is punished not the man.
Seven, keep idleness at a minimum, but make recreation possible.
A little dichotomy, you have to balance there.
Train each man in every useful task and action that actual combat will require
and teach him that these habits will reduce his fear when combat comes as well as make him a trained and able fighter.
Nine, let men work together in groups whenever possible because the social relation increases effectiveness and ten,
but the soldier on isolated duty feel that he is an indispensable man, not a forgotten one.
Great advice there.
How often, and this is something I've talked about.
I always, in the way I used to say this is I would say I want every person I put to and think that their job is the most important job in the sealative.
I want the point man to think hey, point man, if you don't know where you're going, everyone's lost.
You got the most important job and the put to and commander, hey, this is your patrol, your the guy in charge,
you're the got the most important job and the radio man, hey, radio man, if something goes sideways out there,
it's you with your ability to communicate with air assets and other support elements that are going to save everyone.
You're the most important guy.
And then the medic, hey, if someone gets shot, you're the guy, it's like I go right on down the line.
Everyone thinks, and what's what's.
I'm not, I'm not lying to them.
I'm actually telling them the truth.
I'm actually telling them the truth in critical situations.
Someone in that platoon is going to be the most important person.
It's not the same all the time.
I'm telling them the truth.
The truth is, if you're the radio man and you're getting overwhelming enemy fire and that
radio man can reach out and drop bombs on the enemy, he's the most important guy in the platoon without question.
If you're trying to get to an extract point who's going to get to get your platoon out of there,
then the point man is the one that knows where he's going and no one else knows,
that point man's the most important person.
When you're in a machine gun fight, when you're in a gun fight,
it's the machine gunners that are to lay down fire and allow you to cover and move and
close with and destroy the enemy.
It's the machine gunners, most important.
You take away the machine guns and assume, you got a real problem on your hand.
So I'm not lying to anyone.
I'm telling them the truth.
The truth is, you have the most important job in this platoon.
That's the truth.
And when people hear that man, it's important too.
Yeah.
And he goes back, the book goes back and making sure that everyone understands how important
what the unit is doing to the strategic victory.
And talking about pride and unity,
especially the we were overseas and army units would have their battle streamers that
they bring historical documents and hang them up in the wall and they're in their
make shift up center.
From World War II, hanging them up, post your paper or paper clippings from World War II.
And they're hanging them up.
This is who are unit.
This is what we've done.
We are upholding tradition.
We have pride in what we do.
So awesome.
It's a real thing.
Next little section is about zest.
Zest is the fabric from which morale is made.
Zest, vigor of spirit, love of life coupled with a willingness and eagerness to risk
life itself in a good undertaking.
A spirit of high adventure that turns a difficult mission into a rare chance to show the
stuff of which men are made.
This is the weapon that makes a military unit unbeatable.
Think of a mission as a rare chance to show the stuff of which men are made.
Highly motivated.
Zest depends first upon physical fitness.
It demands a sharp appetite that will make a soldier eat plentifully and digest his food.
It requires physical exercise that brings plenty of oxygen into the lungs and plenty of red blood circulating
to the brain and back to the hands and legs.
If a man is to meet the sunrise with any sort of spirit for the new day, he must have slept at night,
sound and understood by anxious dreams within him or by vermin in his bed.
Fatigue can quickly reduce a fighting spirit.
This symptoms of mental fatigue, whether in the air or on the ground are a stalinist,
a lack of interest in the job to be done, lack of enthusiasm, enthusiasm, a heaviness of limbs,
eyelids, even of the will that makes it well-nigh impossible to drag through the day's duties.
And with it shortness of temper, irritability and the blues.
All leaders have to be constantly on guard against this insidious, spiritual, fifth columnists
among their men and among themselves.
Regardless of how invaluable the man when fatigue is made at this attack on his fitness,
he must have relief.
He must be required to sleep, to take respite from responsibility, to get away from the strain
he has been under, otherwise the price is a psychological casualty.
And the more important the man, the greater the cost to the army.
Make sure you people are getting some rest as much as you can.
And again, this book counters these things all the time by saying,
hey, there's sometimes where you're not going to be able to rest.
That's the way it is.
So then what you have to do is you have to understand if to understand that.
That's what this book is about.
You have to understand now what are the risks involved.
Now we've got a unit that is severely fatigued in battle-worn.
What are the risks?
And not going to be able to fight as well as they did when they were fresh.
If you don't know that, perhaps you send them in the front line to another battle.
If you know it, you take another group that was in the rear and you send them in the front line,
you let the guys that are fatigued be the reserves.
That's why if they know and understand these things.
Back to the book, excessive physical discomfort can also eventually
dead in all zest for life and for battle.
Men can fight with their socks stiff with dirt or frozen to their feet with
hands so swollen and crack that they can barely pull a trigger.
They have fought when the baths are unknown and shaves are almost as scarce
when marching must be done through seas of mud and clothing never dries.
And when the eyes are cut and lungs are choked with never settling crowds of dust and sand,
men have fought and are fighting under such conditions.
But it takes an unquenchable spirit to keep it zest when things are like this.
Whole armies have shown this spirit, but such conditions prolonged,
get in zest in the end and therefore must be relieved whenever possible.
When a man has his first encounter with the immediate threat of death,
when he must kill and see men killed, when he must steal himself to hear the unheeded cries
of the mortally wounded and endure the stench of battle, a man may become sick
in his very vitals. He may lose interest in his food and yet this will be no sign of
squeamishness. The toughest of leather next may feel intensely the inward revolting
and horror the battlefield can provoke.
The defenses against these physical and mental foes of the spirit are faith in good
leaders, a loyalty to them and to comrades and a shoulder to shoulder, feeling of
solidarity with the other men of the outfit.
I can go anywhere and stand anything my captain and the rest of my outfit can.
Got to set that good example.
Fear, ally or traitor.
The first battle, the first experience of having an enemy machine gun aimed at you,
the first time an airplane swoops low to lay its deadly eggs in your particular
patch of ground. That is an experience anticipated by the young soldier with mingle
dread and eagerness. He is eager by that time to get at the enemy.
He is learned a great deal about the science of war and wants to use this knowledge
to wipe out the enemy in gain victory.
But he always wonders, every man does just how he will behave when the time comes.
He doesn't feel like a hero.
If he is honest, completely honest with himself, he knows he will be scared, terrified.
The experienced soldier who has been through all this the first time and many other times
has found out for certain that every man going into battle is scared.
His hands tremble, his throat is dry, he must swallow constantly because his heart isn't as
mouth. He does idiotic things like looking at his watch every few seconds or examining his
heart. He is a powerful soldier. He is the only one so disturbed but it is true of all the
veteran as well.
And it is true of the enemy.
Germans and Japs get just as scared as Americans in British.
The bad moments do not come during actual combat, however, but in the time of tense
waiting just before.
As soon as the frightened man is able to go into action to do something effective against the
enemy, especially if it involves a violent physical action, his fright is apt to be
dispeled or forgotten because he is too busy fighting to remember it.
And this is great propaganda to talk about because what they are basically, they are
doing this book to young soldiers that are getting ready to go and fight.
And what they are telling them is look, you are going to be scared, everyone is scared.
So that way they don't get scared and freak out because they are scared.
Airplane pilots who had distinguished themselves in action against the Japanese said when asked
whether they were scared during those moments of acute peril, why I don't know.
There was too much to do, we didn't have time to think.
We are scared at first, wrote a member of a torpedoed ship.
Sure we were.
But when the torpedo hit us, we forgot all about it.
There wasn't much time and then there was much work to do.
It's another thing when you, it's going to go into this, but when you are a leader
and things are going bad, give people something to do, give them a direction, give them an order, say,
look, are this what we are going to do right now?
I don't know about that, but there is what we are going to do.
We are going to move all these chairs and get them into this, whatever, you figure something to do, and do it.
Encounters with the enemy are most terrifying when they are unfamiliar.
The soldier becomes used to gunfire to explosions and to the sight and order of death.
As the soldier becomes used to gunfire explosions and the sight of older,
the soldier of death, he gradually acquires the power to meet these things more stoically.
He does not actually lose his fear but learns to ignore it sufficiently to keep his attention
only on the business of combat.
And if he has in his trained hands a good weapon which he knows will put the enemy out of action.
This gives him a feeling of confidence, a sense of power that in large measure our ways is fear.
He knows it will soon be the other fellow's turn to be scared.
Fear when experienced is intensely uncomfortable and seems often to be incapacitating.
If the period of fright is prolonged, a man may feel that his nerves are all shot by it.
For fear is disintegrating, demoralizing, it shatters morale.
The soldier may be rooted to the spot, paralyzed or immobilized by fear.
Nevertheless, such awful moments before an attack, when each second seems an hour,
may actually be useful to any soldier.
They may really add to his efficiency.
For fear is the body's preparation for action.
The heart pounds faster, blood pumping more rapidly to the arms and legs and brain where oxygen is needed.
The lungs do their part by quick and breathing.
Blood pressure goes up, adrenaline which is nature's own shot in the arm is poured liberally into the bloodstream.
Settle changes in body chemistry automatically affected by powerful emotion.
The soldier's nerves protect the soldier in action in ways he would never think of if he had to plan them himself.
His blood clots more readily.
He loses temporarily sense of fatigue even though he may have been dog-tired.
It is sometimes difficult for a tense fright and soldier to get started into combat to begin the action will relieve his fear.
That part is taken care of by army training and discipline.
Months of training have taught the soldier to respond from habit to definite battle orders,
even though in battle commands often cannot be given as in training.
It has become second nature to him to carry out his own job as a member of the fighting team.
So there you go.
This is also important when you recognize, when you know what's going to happen, it allows you to not be scared that you're scared.
Right? So all of a sudden your breathing starts going faster and you feel the adrenaline going through your system.
If you don't know what's happening, it might catch you off guard.
But if you know what's happening, well, cool. That's my adrenaline.
If you know when you have a, can you feel adrenaline actually go through your system?
Like, let's say you're driving and somebody pulls out in front of you almost crashed into it.
Right? And you can, you can feel the adrenaline go down your arms and duets. Are you felt that before?
Oh yeah. So if you don't have any idea what that is.
And it happens, you might scare you a little bit.
Yes, you know what it is. You're kind of, you're kind of good with it.
Yeah, it's like you, it's like people, I mean, I don't know if I don't know the actual process, but you know how like,
yeah, when you tense up before you do something, right? And feel your heart beating all fast and stuff like that.
If you know, okay, you know, I'm getting excited because of this, you know, event.
That's big in my mind or whatever.
But if you're like, if you don't know, or you're like, what I'm losing it, I feel like I'm losing it right now.
You know, like if you're, I don't know, you know, if you're about to go skydiving or something different for you obviously,
but the normal person, for the jump out of an airplane, you know?
Yeah, and that's what's a lot of the military training that you go through is to get yourself.
Hey, when you, when you start fast-roading, roping out of helicopter, when you're repelling off of the, off of the side of a cliff or out of a window in an urban environment or your parachuting,
static land parachute, free fall parachute. All these things that you do, when you first start doing them,
there's like an adrenaline rush, but you just get used to it. And so then by the time you're getting shot at,
you're like, oh yeah, I know what this is. I'm good. I can carry on.
Yeah.
Back to the book, no matter how distracted, you mind may be by unfamiliar,
interrogating sites and smells and sounds, you act from sheer force of habit.
In fact, it is habits which take care of a man if he is too frightened to think clearly, like the habit of diving for cover when bombs come down.
Then, presently, you are an action. You are a fighting. You are at last using your force against the foe.
No more are you a depressed frightened soul. Fierce forgotten provided your well trained.
Good to teach people the, how to respond in certain situations. Like you didn't, you know, when he comes to the self defense.
Hey, if you get attacked, here's what happens. Here's what you do. When they just have that plan, that's worth a lot.
Just having a plan is worth a lot. So many grabs you here. This is your reaction.
So many grabs you there. This is your reaction. You know, those things, they, if you see them out of context, like if you watch a
Gracie self defense video out of context, you'll say, well, it's going to be hard for that particular movie.
If you go watch like a Macdojo self defense, then you go, that's just, obviously, that's never going to work.
But even you want your Gracie self defense thing out of context, you don't understand it. You might be like, well, I don't know how that's going to work.
But it's a plan that you're going to take action. And it isn't effective plan, by the way. It's not like it's not a good plan.
But the fact that you are going to immediately take action, you're going to respond to the event immediately.
It's going to put you in a totally different place. And a much, much infinitely better place than I just got, you know, someone just grabbed me by
the head or by the arm. And I have no idea what to do. That's a bad situation. Then that fear is going to rise. If you have a reaction, boom, you're going to action.
And then the, he talks about like training right, if you, you know, the well trained person. It's like you're just so, because training is just like repetition.
Right, all these different scenarios. So you're so used to it. It's like nothing. You're so like used to this stimulus or, okay, remember when you're in elementary school, they do a fire drill.
Every whatever they do. And you just calmly stand up and walk out and sing, well, by all I, you know, it's like it's kind of boring in a way.
But I mean, we never had a fire in my elementary school, but I'm imagining that if the, once you heard, it was a certain spuse, a specific bell that went on.
It instead of the regular bell, it would go ding ding ding ding.
It was obviously a fire drill, you know, when you heard the bell. So it was so ingrained in, well, in me, anyway, I'm sure everyone else felt the same way as a kid.
When you heard that, you were like, you just sort of automatically like a zombie stand up and why not, like, you know, it was almost like, yeah, it's like so automatic.
So I'm assuming that like, if a fire actually happened,
you're instinct would be to do it. Just do it. Yeah, normally, you would have run and scatter and be all crazy, whatever you just because you're so quote unquote trained just to do it, you know, completely.
I guarantee if you look back in the history of school fires,
at some point there was a school fire before they did that training and everyone panicked and freaked out and people died.
Yeah, maybe people didn't die, but people said, oh, that could have gone bad. And so then, oh, guess what you do, you rehearse it, you trained this bell means stand up, moving the direction, go out this door,
assemble in the recess area for ad count. Yeah. In fact, they're remembering college, someone pulled the fire alarm.
Mm-hmm. It was, it ended up to be a prank, but everyone sort of thought that, oh, this building is on fire right now, this is in the middle of the night.
I don't think I've ever believed a fire alarm.
And I'm trying to think, if, no way, I've been in one situation where there was a legit fire, but I was like completely, everyone just thought I was super cool and calm, but I was actually just did it.
And then finally, I was, yeah, we need to get out of here.
Yeah. But, yeah, most, because you think about, I've experienced a lot of fire alarms and there's a very low percentage of them that were real fires.
Yeah. Yeah. And that's, well, I mean, I guess that's an added element though. Like if, if you're trained, but you never think it'll ever ever happen.
I don't know, I think I would think that'd be a little bit different, because almost like you run the risk of when it actually does happen and you smell smoke or see the smoke or see the flames or whatever, that might
you do some added element that you weren't expecting. You know? Yeah. So that might jam you up. But nonetheless, I think, like when you go through, I remember there was a fire, but it was like way and a different building and it was just procedure, everyone, I evacuated, you know, kind of thing, and we found out it was just later or whatever. So yeah, I don't think I ever had the stimulus of the fire, but in college or whatever, when I did think that it was on fire, I didn't hear it or I mean,
here it or I mean I didn't smell it or see it or nothing like that.
That's what I was looking at.
I thought obviously we're in no threat.
Yeah, because if there's no fire around you,
then you think that time to get out.
Yeah.
But it was still the same like, no one was panicking.
It seemed like it.
But I'm just saying there's no,
there's no like what we're talking about here,
there's no incentive to run because it's just the alarm
and you fall the procedure.
Yeah.
Well, yeah.
And then if you let's say you're just lining up in a single file
line calmly because you're supposed to do it calmly,
meanwhile the guy behind you is like choking and getting
his shirts on fire.
Right, you're gonna run straight up.
I might try and help him actually.
Give me a little stop drop.
So drop in the road.
It's old school year.
It's been helping out.
Yeah.
Well, I'd throw the paint fire.
Good play.
All right.
Goes into some specifics here.
How to fight fear.
One action dispels fear do something.
And the time is suspense when men are already
for action, but are waiting for the signal start.
Fear is at its height.
If the period of waiting is prolonged,
perhaps delay until a weather changes,
the time should be occupied with preparation for action.
Fight fear with necessary or main, you factured work.
And when expecting combat when waiting for enemy bombers to return,
man you factured work.
Like, hey, you gotta make something up for people to do.
Seems lazy.
Seems yeah.
And it's not hard.
In combat, there's always something to get ready.
So it's not hard to say, all right, what we're gonna do
is we're gonna set up a couple other bunkers.
Let's fill some sandbags.
Cool.
We're all working.
There's always a reason.
It doesn't even have to be manufactured.
It can be real.
Two physical contact with friends, helps.
Men shoot if at all possible stay within sight
of in time of peril, but not bunched up
enough to become a bomb target.
Just the presence of another man not far off with no
when no word is spoken minimizes fear.
Three role calls help men in peril
should be reminded that they are not alone.
Four knowledge is power over fear.
Surprises the most important element in battle,
thus men should be constantly kept informed
of the dangers they may meet.
That one could be a little bit of a trick.
You work you on because sometimes people would get
a little freaked out when they would hear
about what the enemy can do.
You know what I'm saying?
Like I'll tell you one thing, when we were in
Ramadi, there was a lot of ideas, a lot of ideas.
And if someone would come to visit us,
and they wanted to come on an operation with us,
we would give like the slightly longer IED brief
so that they understood the threat.
It wasn't always helpful for them psychologically.
You could see as the brief went on,
you could see I would watch the reactions on people's faces
and you could see them start getting really concerned.
Because it's just my EOD guy standing out.
Here's the bomb from this vehicle, yesterday,
this is what it did to the vehicle day before.
Here's what it looked like.
Here's one that they found.
Here's one that they did.
And it was just a slide show of bombs.
Yeah.
In the city that you're about to go into,
which is not a big city, it's two miles, three miles across.
It's not like we're going, and there's a small chance.
And by the way, there's seven to 10 IEDs detonated a day
on route Michigan one road going across Ramadi.
So it was when you tell when people would come to Ramadi
and they'd get that brief, it would always be sort of an interesting
look on their face.
I would see people tap in their toe, shake in their leg.
You know what I'm saying?
I would watch for that and I'd see people just getting all nervous.
Because hey, it's a real thing.
I mean, I get it.
But the guys from TU Bruiser were kind of adjusted to it.
You know, they were adjusted to it.
Back to the book.
Control of action helps.
To be afraid does not mean that a man must act afraid.
Oh, this one's so good.
Fear is contagious when it is expressed in action.
If a man goes to pieces and becomes panicky,
he must be removed from the sight of other men if that is
all possible.
It is each man's responsibility to control the signs of his own fear
if he can so as to spare the others.
If he can manage to act as though he were calm,
he may actually become more calm.
At any rate, the opposite of true is true,
giving him the fear tends to increase it.
There you go.
It's straightforward.
Don't be shaking your leg during the brief.
Yeah.
You know what I'm saying?
Don't show that you're scared.
Because that gets contagious and other people will start
feeling like you're afraid.
You got to act like no factor.
Whatever.
You think they can blow me up, bring it.
Yeah.
Bring it.
You can't be panicking and freaking out.
And each man is responsible to keep themselves in check,
keep their fear in check.
And just because your afraid doesn't mean you get to act like it.
Yeah.
Is that kind of like one?
When your kids get older, well,
when your kids get older, you have to have that conversation with them.
No, have that conversation.
You don't get to act like you're scared.
You don't even get to act like you're mad.
That's why we play normal face.
Right.
You don't get to act like that.
You think you're going to get hit in the head with this thing,
and you can go deal with it.
Yeah.
Put it on the inside.
You know, like when your kids, when they're young,
and they fall down, right?
You're kid, you saw, yeah, daughter, whatever.
They fall down.
Best thing you can do.
Right.
Laugh out of them.
Or yes.
And it's funny because it's like,
That's awesome.
Yeah, that's a one that I do.
Yeah.
But there's that split second when they fall,
they're stunned.
They're shocked.
And they look at you with like, how am I supposed to act?
I'm afraid.
So if you're like, oh my god, run up to him.
Oh my gosh, are you okay?
I think it's okay.
Every time that noise that you just made,
Yeah.
is my wife is the absolute greatest at this noise.
Oh.
She can make a grown person.
Yeah.
Make you think that you should start crying and freaking out.
Oh, yeah.
Because she just gives the.
Yeah.
He's got a lot of, yeah.
She caused a so much alarm.
Yeah.
I've been married to her for over 20 years.
And we'll be driving.
Oh, just just spend time to get it.
Wait, wait, wait, wait.
We're not, we're not talking like a rainstorm on the highway.
Going 60 miles an hour.
We're talking just cruising just through like a normal area.
And I'll just be, you know, relax, thinking,
train attention, all of a sudden.
And you know what she'll say at the end of it?
She'll go, look at that.
All over there.
It's got such a cool thing.
And I'm thinking, you know,
you know, can you?
No, I've been telling her not to do this.
But it's an instinct that she has.
Yeah.
It's an instinct that my wife has.
I think this.
And it's, and now, you know, my son doing his driving.
Like he got his license.
So he can drive.
Oh.
And he came home the other day.
He's like, man, he's a dad.
I'm driving with mom.
It's kind of scary.
And I'm like, why would it she do?
I was thinking she was driving.
He was no I was driving.
But I drove by like a road.
Mm.
And she was.
Yeah.
Can you get that tense?
Oh, yeah.
Don't act scared.
Don't do it.
And for some reason, my wife's, that's an emotional noise
that she makes.
It's not fear.
It's like excitement.
It's like, yeah, it's everything.
Sometimes it's like, I see something cute too.
You know, just something that's not even me.
I see some, why would you do this?
If you see something cute, why would you go,
I don't do that noise.
That's a wrong noise.
That noise means I'm about to get in brace for impact.
That's what that noise means.
Um, noise means I'm about to get tea bone.
Yeah.
And I have a split second to accelerate out of the kill zone.
That's what that noise means.
It doesn't mean book it that cat.
Stop it.
Well, man, please.
Yeah.
And I don't know if that's a wife thing or what?
Because my wife is the same thing the same way.
And it actually is exactly what this book said where you get like act
scared because it'll cause other sex scared essentially, right?
No, in do Span Aquedever, which because that's what it did.
That's what you're like for sure.
Yeah, for sure.
That's what my wife does to me, which is like on the computer.
And she's like, oh, I'm like, look at her.
I'm like, oh, what's that like?
It's a crazy thing.
Yeah, or so clearly, we're all about to die.
I'm going to X 15 seconds.
Because we just made that noise.
Exactly, right.
And that's kind of what goes on for a split second.
I wonder because I should have been able to
deprogram myself.
And I have a little, have a little bit, but it's not full.
It's not a full deprogram when I hear it.
I still think imminent threat is within 14 seconds of impact.
Yeah.
And if not three seconds.
Well, yeah, especially when it's out of nowhere like that.
Oh, it's totally out of the list.
You know, we're just driving.
It's a sunny day, everything.
So bad.
Don't make that noise unless you're
a, unless you see a person with a machete,
and it's in the striking position,
they'll make that noise.
Because that's what I think.
I think I think Freddy Krueger's with me
with a, with a, with a, with a,
battle axe getting ready to take my head off.
Uh, no, I don't think he'd have a, a battle axe.
No, he had them weird fingers.
Yeah, yeah, the nice, some of the fingers.
But yeah, dang, that's, yeah, good advice.
100% you can't, I don't know how much you can train yourself
with that though.
That's no, no.
And then, I think that's a, I think that's a genetic
programmed noise that heightens the reaction.
What?
And prepares you for combat situations.
Yeah, because there's like some reason it's more
up into this thing where it can also be triggered
to make that noise by a cute cat on the, you know, whatever.
Yeah, or like, maybe she forgot something.
You know, oh, yeah, that's another one.
I forgot to tell you, like, you know, our friends
are having a baby or something like this, you know?
No, I want to be that.
It'll be like, I forgot to tell you, I got Billy
coming over for you to work on, you know, yard,
yeah, sprinkler.
Yeah, okay, cool.
Thanks.
Now that my adrenaline is through the real bad.
That's gonna be out.
Yeah.
Check.
Back to the book.
There's another kind of fear that must be endured
for days and weeks, perhaps months or years.
If men are besieged, cut off from help, deprived of inadequate
deprived of adequate defense, then the ever present
peril from the enemy may be aggravated by the greater
peril of disease, famine, exposure.
And there may be little chance for action.
Men in the present war have endured primitive sorts of hardships
that would seem to be beyond human endurance in baton,
on correct or alone on a rubber life raft
for five weeks and blistering sun and drenching storm
without food, without shelter, without water, without any aid,
but their own unquenchable spirit, their fortitude and their faith.
This means terror mixed with despair.
The misery cannot be relieved.
It can only be endured.
Then they must maintain sanity, courage, and life itself
by their ingenuity in originating occupations for hands and minds
that we're relieved the tension and seem to reduce the hazards.
And this is the kind of stuff that Captain Plum talked about.
It's figuring out stuff to do.
Like, just we're going to figure out stuff to do,
whether it's...
whether it's make teacher self-colligraphy by making an earwax
a rich sketch or whatever.
I mean, those guys figured out things to do.
Back to the book and such trying times and intense moments,
a laugh can be a lifesaver.
An army officer relating experience of the World War,
that's the first World War, tells of a time when badly frightened,
untrained soldiers of that war had taken refuge in a roadside ditch
against an unsfreshing horror, the fire of American guns
turned on them by mistake.
Pan-accent the blood pounding into my head and emptied my stomach of courage.
It was bad enough to be shot at by the boge,
but there was no sense in being killed by friendly troops.
My men looked wild and fingered their triggers
ready to return fire of our other battalion.
Something had to be done and done quick,
and Captain Wast did it unintentionally, but he still did it.
Jackson, he yelled, yes, Captain, where are you?
Right here, across the road, stand up so I can see you.
Captain Jackson shouted above the crackling roar of machine gun bullets.
If you want to see me, you stand up.
American humor can lick anything.
The smothered chuckles ran down the line, orders were given and listened to.
Men wriggled backwards out of the zone of fire.
The first to reach the trees dash down the line of third battalion,
shutting off the guns.
So you're gonna hear jokes like that, and it is helpful.
Continuing the soldier who deliberately chooses to be blown up in order to wipe out an
enemy tank or machine gun nest that would have otherwise cost the lives of his friends
as ideals, has indeed all it takes to make a soldier.
The commander of a ship who coole sends away the last lifeboat and goes down with his vessel
rather than abandon it while some of his men are helplessly imprisoned in one of its compartments
is afraid, but governed by something more powerful than fear.
That's a good statement, isn't it?
Governance, do you have over your own emotions?
You may call this force idealism, conscience, religion, philosophy, tradition, code, or even habit.
Or you may be modern in call it ideology.
Psychologists sometimes call it the triumph of the social over the selfish instincts.
To recognize this force as the most potent weapon an army can possess,
men fighting for their homes and armed with this spirit can stand their ground and win against
tremendous opposing forces.
Next section, why men fight lower animals fight from a variety of causes?
Some fight because as be surprised, they live by killing and devouring animals may fight their
own kind and a tossle over mate.
They fight to defend their young, their homes, or their own lives.
Some are aggressive and go about seeking what they may devour, others fight as a last resort
when they are cornered.
Men being too legant animals may fight for any or all of these reasons.
But because they have minds capable of being moved by abstract ideas such as honor, glory,
freedom, sympathy, justice, and patriotism, men also fight for what they believe to be right.
Greater than a fear of injury and death, Napoleon said, is the fear of shame.
Before a drafted man throws himself wholeheartedly into his work as a soldier before the civilian
makes up his mind to enlist in the army, he is stirred by, he is stirred in influence by one or
perhaps many of the following forces.
He may be carried away by men.
This is just laying out why people are in the army and this is important to understand if
you are a leader of a bunch of people in the army, then you have to understand how they ended
up there.
If you are in charge of a company, you have to understand how people ended up in a position
where they are working for you.
Why are they there?
How do they end up there?
He breaks it down for people that join the army.
One, he may be carried away by mass suggestion and infectious, martial spirit spreads through
the community, roused by government officials, speakers, writers, flags, or waving bands
or playing drums or beating and crowds of cheering.
Boom, to he may become involved in a wave of war and hysteria, like the furvernal of martial
spirit, war hate is infectious, men rush to arms at news of the enemy's evil designs or
brutality of a treacherous assault or intended invasion.
Three, he may be urged on by strong spirit of adventure.
For the ambitious self-centered man, especially perhaps if he has been unable to achieve
success in civilian life may see war as an opportunity to gain personal glory and power.
Five, he may be driven by his own combativeness.
Some men delight in fighting for its own sake, some may even be killers at heart, because
murder is outlawed in civilian life and because many circles even taking a poke in a man
or cursing him freely is frowned upon, some combat of men may find their first thrill of
releasing an attack on the enemy.
Six, he may be unconsciously trying to relieve a grouch by violence that is considered
legitimate.
The man who has spent a lifetime enduring unending series of disappointments, failures
and obstacles, and who has dammed up in himself, over-eVER mounting grievances and resentment
may be able to turn all that ill will against the enemy.
Seven, he may have joined the army as he would apply for a job.
Think about the stark difference between those couple there who got one person that just
wants to fight people or one person that feels like they've been a failure and everything
and just has an opportunity to take that grudge against the world.
I'm a murderer at heart and you got another guy that, hey I joined, because this is
okay.
Seems like a good job.
They could pay me a GI bill or whatever.
They're not there.
Hey, he may have been driven into army life by regard for public opinion.
He may feel keenly the way his friends, especially the girls, regard a military uniform
and a fighting man.
He may hate the thought of being considered a slacker.
Nine, it may be his desire to maintain his own self-esteem that moves him.
He may have to end his secret shame at the thought that others are doing the fighting
for him.
Ten, his action may be based on a feeling of oneness with the nation and on faith in the
leaders and the nation's leaders.
Eleven, he might be acting out of his faith in democracy.
Twelve, he might be compelled by his spirit of sacrifice.
All these reasons why men join the army, why they accept training in many cases, why
they keep on willingly, willingly when they go on overseas to a fighting front.
Yet by the motives, by then the motives usually change or some of them do and hear the
chief reasons why a man fights at the front.
So there's a little difference here.
So that's why they joined and now to why they're fighting.
And this is something to hear about.
It's kind of a cliche thing.
He's fighting for the guy who's left into his right.
This is this way we're going to go into a little bit.
Here's what it is and it's true.
13 in a unit with good morale he fights out of loyalty to his comrades and his unit.
Boom, there it is.
This is important though.
14 or he may fight because he is led to men at the front face danger and are often uncertain
what to do about it.
This is especially true in a unit with uncertain morale.
It's like I said earlier, like sometimes the leaders, if you got a good leader that's
going to make things happen, it's going to make things happen.
This is a good one.
15.
Finally a man may fight because there's literally nothing else to do.
And of course everyone uses the word literally now.
All the time.
And if you take it, if you remove that from your brain to make literally mean what
it's supposed to mean.
Think about the sentence.
Finally a man may fight because there is literally nothing else to do.
He and his comrades are in the war and at the front in battle.
No one stops to figure out why he should escape from a burning house.
So with fighting.
So yeah, there's some people like, oh yeah, guess what?
You have two choices.
Fight or die.
And you're going to fight.
How man meet defeat?
The way a man stands up to a blow partly of course depends on how heavy the blow.
And a man is faced with a very difficult problem or a series of them with any sort of obstacle
or frustration when things become too difficult.
There are three sorts of things he can do.
He can work at it harder attacking the problem from new angles with increasing vigor.
He can get mad and attempt to destroy the obstacle or himself or something else.
And three, he can give up and despair and run away in apathy.
The first way is the way of learning.
Right?
When what seems like a good plan is hit upon and it is tried.
If this fails, there's a signal for more thinking when a good working plan is finally
evolved.
Success is achieved and the man is learned.
So that's the best thing to do.
You try different solutions.
All this activity is healthy and less the individual.
Oh, there's a little balance.
There's a little dichotomy here.
All this activity is healthy.
Unless the individual becomes so engrossed with a single problem, so obsessed by it that
he fails to eat or sleep or pay attention to other necessary problems.
Get a target fixation.
Getting mad over disappointments or failures is generally not profitable.
It's particularly hard on the innocent bystander because of the way men have of shifting
their grouch from the original obstacle to other persons or things.
The man who fails to get a promotion, he has been working and longing for doesn't take
a poke at the officer who refused to recommend him.
Much as he would like to have it out with him and said he's likely to kick his buddy in
the pants so much as he raises.
If he's so much as raised as an eyebrow, leaders too may take it out on a funding man who
then wonder what's eaten him.
Aggression may also be turned inward onto the self.
Many a man goes about kicking himself, usually figuratively, but sometimes in real self
punishments such as banging the head or punching or kicking a hard object until the flesh
is bruised.
Of course the extreme of self punishment for disastrous failure or frustration is suicide,
but mostly suicide is just giving up.
That first you don't succeed try try again.
This adage may be used to maintain courage, but the process is actually governed by natural
law.
The number of times a man will attempt to accomplish a certain job or to reach a certain objective
is governed in one direction by the importance of that particular success and in the other
direction by the effort and pain involved in trying.
And the successful achievement means less than the individual than the freedom from the strain
of trying to attain it, any man will abandon the struggle.
Giving up is nature's way of protecting the organism against too much pain.
So that's my...
Don't...
Once you've banged your head against the wall 44 times, that's enough.
That you're not going to get through it on the 45th or the 46th or the 47th try.
You need to find a different way.
That goes on.
Giving up may mean defeat, but it does not always mean surrender.
In most situation what is given up is some particular way of reaching the goal rather than
a complete abandonment of the objective.
It's sort of defeat results in thinking and fresh striving in eventual progress.
A man who has been unable to get a commission in the army may enlist earn his stripes
and later reach an officer candidate school.
Another kind of giving up results in compromise.
The original objective is abandon, but another more easily achieved is substituted.
And this stuff is...
This is the things that people get the impression that...
Well, from me.
Well, you just never give up.
Like, never compromise.
It sounds really cool to say that.
Yeah.
There was no...
There was no t-shirt back in the day.
Sure.
It was for H&K rifles.
Yeah.
And it said in a world of compromise, some don't.
And had a picture of an entry team going into a building.
And of course, you hear that and you think that's right.
So, you don't compromise ever.
But here's the problem.
No compromise means if you don't win every single time, you will get defeated and destroyed.
Because you're not going to win.
And the problem is that is you're not going to win every time.
You're not going to win every argument that you have.
You're not going to win every idea that you put forth isn't going to be the idea that
could select it.
And what you end up being is a person that can't work with anyone else.
Or you end up a person that has one chance at charging a machine gun nest and you go straight
forward up the hill towards the machine gun nest and guess what, everyone dies.
Yeah.
You didn't achieve the mission and everyone is dead.
Now if you would have said, you know what, we tried.
We lost two guys.
We backed up, now we're in covered position and we're waiting for some reinforcements.
And when the reinforcements show up, here's the plan.
We're going to put down covering fire.
We're going to maneuver around the flank or we're going to get a heavy weapon in here
and we're going to shoot a bazooka at this thing.
Whatever.
So this one is in the book where it says, give up.
It's not giving up.
It's more like giving up on a certain thing.
He says giving up does not always mean surrender.
So surrender is like I give up on the mission.
Yes.
Essentially.
Giving up is like giving up.
Like just basically stop doing something that's not working kind of thing.
Right.
Yeah.
So the question on the podcast is when is it okay to quit?
Yes.
Define this exact thing.
Yeah.
The definition.
That's kind of the thing.
And I had the conversation with a guy that we both know who was making a great effort
in a business.
The business was not being successful the way he had envisioned it.
And it was costing him a lot of money.
It was costing him time.
He was putting all the efforts into it.
And he literally asked me, hey man, if I shift to something else, is that quitting?
And I said, it's quitting, but it's not surrendering.
And I actually said, what is your goal?
And his goal was not to be successful in that particular business.
His goal was to spend time with his family and set up a safe financial situation for them.
And he kind of got his wires crossed on thinking that this business that he had started
was the mission.
It wasn't the mission.
The mission was taking care of his family and spending time with his family.
And he was actually failing to do either.
So sometimes you have to, sometimes you have to make those adjustments.
You have to quit.
You just because you quit one plan doesn't mean you surrender.
Yeah.
In fact, I would get mad at young seals when they would come up with a plan.
They'd use the plan to go hit a training target.
The plan would start to fail and they wouldn't adapt.
They wouldn't change.
They'd stick with the plan.
I'm not a quitter.
We're going to keep going.
Well, really, okay.
Cool.
We'll kill everyone that you have.
You can do buddy carries the rest of the night out here in the desert.
I got all my.
So it's essentially, when it comes down to it's almost like an issue with the language.
Because like quitting, giving up like these are things that were kind of trained to think
are bad.
These are bad things to quit and give up.
So all you have, I mean, and given what he's talking, you know, like nowadays, I've heard
people use word pivot.
Like the guy we're talking about with business, right?
I've got pivot.
Yeah, I got pivot.
It's like, well, pivot, pivot, give up.
I mean, I'd rather use word pivot because it sounds like, hey, I'm still on the mission
on the path.
I'm just taking a different direction.
You know, it would we'd have to come up with a legitimate what never quit, which is what
we're actually taught in the sealed teams.
But then when you say you're never quit, that means never surrender.
That's what that.
That's what it really means is never lose sight of accomplishing and doing what it takes
to accomplish your long term strategic goals.
That's what it really means.
But that doesn't sound as cool as never quit.
Yeah.
But then, and then give up same thing.
Give up means like, this is too much for me or I'm not willing to work it hard through
it or whatever.
That's what it feels like.
It means, but in this book, it doesn't mean that.
I mean, here's a little, little dichotomy for me that kind of hurts it.
I know I think it's pretty much ego talking.
But I, when I hear pivot, I risk their golf.
They're going so well.
I think they're giving up on that.
They're going to do it.
And you know what that's like?
That's having negative connotation, which is, which is not good.
I'm criticizing myself for even having those shots because you do have to pivot in
business.
You do have to pivot in combat.
You can't be like, oh, here's what we were trying to do and it wasn't working.
So we're just going to do it harder.
No, you actually have to say, hey, this isn't working and we're going to make some adjustments.
We're going to pivot.
Yeah.
And I think that's what that word was sort of introduced to that whole space to mean.
Because of all these different.
But then here's the thing, though, on the flip side, that some guys don't give up.
They'll straight up give up because it's too much work and be like, I'm going to take a new
direction in a life.
You know, I'm going to pivot towards more of the personal stuff, more personal things.
Yeah, I'm going to move this one.
Meanwhile, they surrendered their whole mission.
Those too much work.
Right.
You know, we're like, it didn't come as easier quickly or what it is.
We're going to pivot or pivot hard if we need to.
Yes.
Check.
Next, ability to accept defeat in such ways is no fault of character.
In fact, a man who can take it and still do his best without bitterness is highly regarded
in the army and in civilian life.
But there are other ways of meeting defeat or disappointment that are destructive and
may result in psychological casualty.
The familiar sour grapes reaction is what happens in a man who has set his heart so firmly
on a particular achievement that he can't give it up and face the fact.
So he belittles or runs down the very job he wants so much to have.
He says pilots are all crazy or fools and the whole flying game is a jip.
You.
We have to talk to good deal Dave Burke about that one.
No, because that definitely happens.
You know, you get someone that's trying to achieve.
You're going to care about a black belt.
Yeah.
It's not even that big with deal.
Cool.
Don't get one.
Because apparently you're not sour grapes.
You know where that expression comes from?
I do not.
Yeah.
So I didn't either.
No, until I was willing to adulthood.
So it's like a old, what do you call them?
Little fable.
I don't know.
What is it when it's like a story that didn't really happen.
But it was a so all the favor.
Super short.
So this fox.
It was hungry and saw some grapes up on the vines, right?
And so the fox is like dang, that's pretty high.
So it's all good.
I'm going to jump up on me.
Eat those grapes.
Okay.
Jump up.
Mises the grape.
He can't jump high enough.
So he's like, all right.
He comes back and he's like, you know, I just got to jump higher.
That's all.
So he jumps hot.
Even higher still can't.
Still can't.
Try as again.
Still can't get him.
Again, still can't get him.
Finally gives up.
Doesn't pivot.
Gives up.
And while he's leaving, he says.
Scrapes were probably sour anyway.
There it is.
There you go.
Don't like that.
Continuing.
More likely to occur is a sort of symbolic running away through fainting illness or physical
defect.
Defect a man faced with failure to pass an examination for a promotion or he is long
for may suddenly a nouncyty is colorblind or nightblind or has some other previously
undiscovered defect that would prevent a success.
And then the story may become actually ill and be honestly unaware of the connection between
sudden sickness and frustration.
This is a fainting physical defect is a big one for people that don't make it through
some kind of military training program.
So what is that?
That's like we're like, what happened?
I remember my like, right.
Maybe they did it or we are so are they blaming something that actually is occurring
or are they just sort of making it physical effect?
I couldn't do this because my life was hurt.
That's why I didn't make it through the program because I got this.
I got that.
Okay.
And the other thing they make is sometimes people actually get sick but it's because they're
you know, the mind body connection.
It's crazy.
Back to the book.
Each man no matter how strong mentally and physically has his limits beyond which the
strongest will cannot drive him.
The wise man learns his own tolerances and cautiously retreats if possible to a more
defended position when hazards and obstacles he is in danger of are too great.
It's amazing that they so clearly understood this.
This is 1942 or something like that.
And they're saying look, they're saying the exact same thing that's a big revelation
to say, pivot.
They're saying the same thing.
Rage, a two-edged weapon.
A group of tanks stands in a field silent motionless and dead.
Suddenly switches on from a motor start and they become alive.
Noise bursts from their exhaust and they roar to attack.
A gun is a nerd and dead until a high explosive powder is set off in its chambers.
A bomb without nitroglycerin is a dud.
All weapons are mere useless pieces of metal until the release of energy brings them
to life.
Man, two, as a weapon of war must have energy released to galvanize him into acting, fighting
soldier.
And the high explosive that sets off a man's fighting power is emotion.
There are certain things that a man can do in an automatic way without the fire of emotional
energy.
These things would win no wars without fear and without rage.
You could not even defend himself of the enemy or aiming at him and about to fire.
Slap a man's face and he will become in rage, drop a bomb beside him and he may become
terrified.
But although the two feelings may seem different to the man very different, inwardly,
the change that take place in his body or similar.
His heart beats faster, his blood pressure rises, his blood is shifted from internal organs
to the muscles, his digestion stop, stops, sugar in his blood increases, his hands tremble,
his voice quivers, the body wists in the bladder or bowels may be expelled, he becomes
alert and ready for instant action.
Whether all this extreme preparation for action by the body is a good thing for the soldier
or whether it will eventually or whether it will actually endanger his life depends on
the circumstances.
And in primitive hand to hand combat when the last ounce of energy of which the body is capable
must be summoned instantly for one tremendous spur of running to get away from peril or
for one outburst of physical strength to down the foe, rage or fear will pour into blood
the adrenaline necessary to rouse that vital energy.
If the immediate vigorous action is impossible, however, and if life depends instead upon
the cool headed use of skill, self-control and discipline, then violent emotion can put
the soldier in mortal peril.
So this one thing can kill you or save you.
Yeah, it's an interesting differentiation there where it's like, hey, if the task kind of
requires skill and stuff, you've got to control that.
You can't be doing it, but if it's like, hey, if you sometimes, because it's face it
in life and whatever, sometimes it just, you just got to power through some stuff.
Everyone's doing well.
Yeah, no doubt about it.
And actually, you said, how put quite eloquently?
Sometimes you have to use your logic and sometimes you have to use your logic and sometimes
you have to use your logic and then you have to use your logic and then you have to use
it in the field manual.
Sometimes, if your logic fails, like, if you can't think of a good reason why I
should I do another set or why should I go competing this thing?
You have to let your emotions get a little get in the game.
And then sometimes your emotions get shut down.
Yeah.
Because the goods are just stupid.
Doesn't make sense.
Yeah.
Well, then you got to let your emotions go.
Wait, me, it doesn't make sense.
Because you're being weak.
You don't like that.
It's bad.
Logic one, a lot of times is, well, it's more dynamic, I'd say,
because you can have full cut-wall on it,
but I can have full conversations in my head.
And the work you're not one was a big one,
where I'm like, think about how you'll feel after.
That's gonna be the benefit, you know?
But then at the same time, I would be like,
hey, wait, but you could easily rest right now.
You can get recut, you know, so it's like,
you're one of those guys, it has a huge, huge,
surplus of standing by things that are like, look,
you know, the most important part of working out is,
as a representative, you don't grow.
You don't get stronger when you're working out.
You actually get stronger when you rest.
Yep, when you rest.
Sure.
You got that little voice, so you get that,
that one little monkey on your shoulder,
that's whispered in those things.
Yeah, but now I got you who, in like,
the big monkey.
Yeah, even bigger one, because,
and I got this from you, essentially, where it's like,
okay, I can, this is kind of the conversations
went on my head, typically.
So yes, I can be like, yeah, the recovery,
that's how you, you know, get the gains, whatever,
that's on one side, then the other side is like,
wait, but you want to train a whole,
there's way more to working out
than just getting bigger and stronger.
There's more to it.
There's mental exercise, there's mental toughness
exercises in there, there's doing, you know,
discipline all these things.
Oh yeah, and hand their more, like,
they're longer lasting, like things to develop,
you know, like when you develop them,
they apply them more things.
So I can be easily be like, hey, I don't feel like it today.
That's my body telling me I should rest today.
Yeah, I really don't feel like it physically.
And that is true, it's probably true,
but what else is true is if I can train myself
to power through these sorts of situations,
even though they're true,
that's gonna serve me way better in life,
so if I do that, that's gonna allow this.
Yeah, so I'm like, dang.
So now I got to explain some of that stuff
to my youngest daughter, my youngest daughter,
about how competition is good.
And the reason competition is good
is because life is a competition.
It is a straight-up competition.
And if you're not good at competing,
if you don't get comfortable with competing,
that's gonna be a problem when it comes time
to compete, which you will have to,
you're not gonna get through life without competing
for things, for whatever.
It doesn't happen.
You're gonna have to compete for a job.
You're gonna have to compete for,
to meet someone, to be your wife or husband.
There's a competition going on for that.
They're just not like down for the call,
it's out of the gate.
No, if you've got a fight off other humans,
to get what you want.
Whether it's a spouse, whether it's a job,
whether it's a promotion, whether it's a part in the school play.
There's other people that are gonna be trying,
I was telling my little daughter this.
You think they're just gonna step aside when you show up?
You want the lead role?
You know, you got it.
No, it's a competition.
And you want to destroy the competition.
And the way you do that is you compete,
you compete in different things a lot.
You push yourself and you figure out
what it takes to step up.
Yeah.
Like wrestling a lot.
Wrestling puts a lot of pressure on kids.
And it is straight competition,
mono, emono, or in the case of my daughter.
What is that?
Female women.
That's what mono versus the mono.
It is straight competition.
You against another human being.
One, you's gonna win.
One, you's gonna lose 100% of the time.
That's what's gonna happen.
And it's all on you.
Yeah.
So that's really good for people.
It's good for kids.
Yeah.
Well, do you just need to competition, same thing.
And then you just get, you can just say any kind of competition.
Yeah.
Yeah, it's like a, well, a dichotomy, too.
You know, in the spirit of accuracy,
it's kind of like life.
Not to get too deep here, but life is half competition,
half collaboration.
So it could be different.
It could be 60, 40 and whatever.
Whatever.
You're 100% competition for me in a bunch of
collaborations for you.
But, but.
Yeah.
But here's the thing where, yeah, you get people who lean too far towards competition.
They start to alienate people and they can't, you know, maintain relationships like all these
problems.
They're playing the short game.
Sort game.
Yes.
And the collaboration.
If there's a long game, that's not a factor.
Yeah.
Because they're realizing, oh, I'm gonna win in the long game.
So this short game is a sacrifice, you know, problem.
Oh, yes.
I want to, you know, I'm not gonna do something that's gonna create
an antagonistic relationship with these people that I'm gonna count on in the future.
So guess what?
We're gonna take a little hit right now.
We're gonna make something, you know, you make compromises because you're focused
on the long game because ultimately, it is a competition.
Yeah.
Well, it is a competition.
Sure.
Um, not everything's a competition.
It's a lot of it is a collaboration.
But within, I mean, most times we collaborate to compete.
Yeah.
So it is, it's like a little balance, like a little dance you're doing with
collaboration competition.
That's why I think anyway, I don't know.
But from what I can view or see observed that, yeah, if you lean too much towards competition,
yes, you, you drive yourself up and if you can do much towards collaboration.
It is a dichotomy.
You drive yourself up too.
It's like you can't, you can't succeed.
It's like you can't get out of like, you little cow.
Yeah, it should be balanced.
And if you are competing on things, because there's people that compete on things,
they don't matter.
Yeah.
And then while, or they compete when they should be collaborating.
That's true, too.
Or they're afraid to compete.
So they don't compete at all.
Yeah.
So there's all kinds of problems.
But yes, I, what am I, I'm speaking a little bit simplified for my daughter, because
what my daughter, when I want my kids to realize is that there is competition.
Yeah.
And that they're part of it, whether they want to be or not, that's the point that I'm
trying to make.
So when I talked to my daughter about something, and she gives me a kind of a shoulder
shoulder, a shoulder about something.
When it's not a shoulder, a shoulder situation, then you are understanding that things
are a competition.
And life is a competition.
And you know what?
It is hard to say, it's, it's, it's very extreme to say everything in life or life
in general or life as a whole is a competition.
That's a real extreme statement.
And I can see I totally agree with your point.
And you are correct that that can result in then a bad attitude.
And really, not even just a bad attitude, a bad life.
I mean, you can end up, like you said, you can alienate everyone and you can end up alone
and you're competing and you're, I beat that person.
I beat that person.
And now you're just, you've lost, that's the thing.
You've lost a whole section of your competition, which is developing relationships with
other human beings that you can then count upon in your times of need or that you can
provide for.
It's like, all you've ruined everything.
So, but what I'm saying is even that right there, if you think about it in terms of what
I just said, you lost.
So ultimately, to win the competition, you have to be aware of it.
You have to compete.
Competing, this is probably the crux of what we're trying to say, competing doesn't always
mean.
Competing smashing the other person.
Yeah.
Competing doesn't always mean that.
Sometimes competing means actually letting the other person win.
Yeah.
Competing sometimes means letting get compromising because I'm going to win the long game.
I'm playing a long game over here.
Yeah.
And you're playing around with the short game.
It'd be a good job.
I'm going to applaud you.
Maybe golf clap.
Yeah.
Yeah, man.
It's true.
Because you can collaborate all you want.
But if you have, like how you put it, the long game, which is really, really effective
way to look at it, by the way, with everything.
But if you can be collaborating and be the best team player in the whole wide world.
But your goal, your goal, is for your team.
You're the team player.
It's for your team to win.
Whatever you're doing.
And win, I mean, here's the thing where worse, I think people get emotionally jammed
up when they hear like, you're a competition.
And that shouldn't be like that or whatever.
To win in life.
Win, mean, they think that, like, I win, you lose trying to start a bit.
But really when it comes up, even just genetically.
And Holly's say, finding a mate or reproducing whatever.
It's like you're survival of the fittest, right?
You know, when is some kind of thing, like, organisms compete for mate compete for this.
So it's kind of like, that's how it is.
You know, it's not like I'm a person, you're a person.
I'm going to win and defeat you and you're the loser.
It's not that thing.
It's like basically you want to be successful.
And for for most situations for you to be successful, you have to kind of, you have
to beat someone out of them.
Them being successful.
And in order to be successful, you also have to play the game.
You also have to play the game by the rules, because otherwise you end up ostracized or in jail,
right?
Because you could say, I'm going to win.
That's what I'm going to make the most money.
So I'm going to be no mistylet from people.
I'm going to do immoral things in order to get there.
That would be everything's a competition attitude, but it's the wrong attitude.
Because you're not going to win in the end.
You're going to lose.
You're going to be in jail.
So you lost.
But if you realize that it is a competition, and you have to play the rules, and you have
to win the game, and winning the game means that you are successful in a place where you
can help other people, and you've got what you need.
And that's what we're looking for.
Yeah.
Definitely dichotomy with that one.
Speaking of dichotomy, going back to the book, it is possible.
It is as possible to be literally blinded by rage as it is to be paralyzed by fear.
The prize fighter knows that he can win against a stronger and more skilled opponent.
If he can rouse his opponent to violent anger in which he strikes wildly and fails to use
his science.
We'll see that all the time.
You've got to maintain your composure.
You know, fight on the mats, even on the mats of justice for the jujitsu.
Oh, yeah.
Big time.
You know what movie was like the epitome of that was a few good men.
Remember at the end?
Oh, when he was like, when he made him admit to it, yeah.
Yeah.
That's exactly what he did.
Don't know.
Took him out of the game, got him all riled up, made him.
This bad man.
That was good.
You can't handle the truth.
That's right.
That was a good speech, though, by the way.
He'd but he let the rage and the emotion cause a problem for him.
He couldn't just, he didn't have to do anything.
He could, he just kept his most of it.
Be like him, whatever.
No.
Didn't do it.
He taught him.
Then Tom Cruise, he played the game really well.
No, to attack his emotions.
You know, is it funny that if you understand psychology and human nature, you can actually
play it on someone and bring their own demise based on something that they're going to do for
themselves.
Yeah, that's why it's important to understand human nature.
Back to the book, the main purpose behind all the long routine of military training
and the pre-conditioning of troops to simulate battle conditions to drill into soldiers fighting
habits.
So deeply ingrained.
So intimately second nature that they will persist in the face of the most overwhelming
provocations to rage or panic.
Long practice in shooting cool, yet a target without undo excitement without blood, lost,
makes it possible for the soldier to shoot calmly as at his target when his very life
and the safety of his pals are at stake.
His hand must not tremble then.
His keen eye and steady nerve must not waver.
Fortunately men and civilized society have been trained since early childhood to control
and discipline their natural impulses.
For the normal adult, it is entirely possible for intelligence to remain in command of his
behavior and for even recently acquired habits to be retained in opposition to the instinctive
impulses to run or drop his rifle and play it out with his fists.
There are many degrees of anger, however, and although the violently enraged individual
may be at the mercy of the enemy, a milder form of resentment of injustice and calm determination
to avenge cruelty, can serve to fill man with a fighting spirit that knows no defeat.
The difference between this cool anger and rage is like the difference between tempered
steel and molten iron.
That's a good one.
And the harnessed power of a Niagara that can be directed intelligently to wipe out the enemy.
Such deep and controlled anger is not to be roused artificially by any group before
any group of men.
It is the automatic result of an un-partnable offense.
It rises like an unquenchable fire when a man's house is attacked when his wife or children
are abused when his own native land is invaded.
Such anger can be used not only for actual killing of the enemy, but also to provide
the energy needed for work behind the lines.
A soldier who is determined to defeat the enemy will do anything that he feels contributes
to wiping out the foe, whether it is changing the tires on a truck or unloading shells
from a packing case or policing barracks in his training camp.
He will fight at his job.
He will do that job well and will use his own initiative to volunteer for extra duty
to think up ways of doing his job more quickly and more efficiently.
Anger is infectious and can spread from one person to another through personal contact.
Just to see the flushed face and tense expression of a rathy person may be enough to stir
anger in others.
The sound of anger in a raised voice or the sight of angry behavior is even more catching.
Anger spreads most readily when the beholder is sympathetic.
When he's able to put himself in the angry man's shoes, when the person who is injured
is one of us.
For this reason, the rouse, anger of a people is much greater and more moving than the
sum of the individual anger within the group.
They reinforce one another.
Anger shared, controlled and directed to the single purpose of destroying the enemy is a powerful
force for survival and for victory.
Anger is a gift.
Is that a raging atmosphere?
The machine is indeed.
Yeah, that's bad.
Bring it out.
Quotes.
It goes on hatred of the enemy makes sense.
The army is organized throughout for one single purpose, fighting.
Soldiers must be fighting men with a fighting spirit.
But somehow acts of aggression by soldiers are useless to the war effort effort and actually
dangerous to the army.
When competition, there we go.
When competition between companies or regiments turns into bitter rivalry, when soldiers
in town for a Saturday night, pick calls with each other or with the town's people.
When race prejudices are permitted to develop within a camp or when officers stooped professional
jealousy, the harmful results can be as bad as those dealt out by the enemy.
This is when life and I always say the enemy is outside the wire.
This, all those things are fighting inside the wire, fighting against ourselves.
Each conditions make rifts in the solidarity essential to the fighting morale.
They cause a deterioration of discipline, produce a state of anxiety and insecurity among
the troops and worst of all, to actually drain off in ineffective petty squabbles the fighting
energy every ounce of which is needed to bring victory.
The fought fal leader, knowing that no group or nation can long survive even is torn
by internal strife or dissension with its allies, is seriously disturbed by any tendency
toward personal or factual friction within his command.
He well knows that victory can only come if the whole group puts all its efforts into a unified
cooperative battle against the common enemy.
You always end up with these little factions right and you have to try and prevent that.
You gotta watch out for those.
They sneak up on you.
It happens in any organization.
People start to relate to each other and then they pick a little common enemy even when
inside the wire and it's like the us against them.
Yeah, that's true, because in picking a common enemy even on a social level whatever that
like promotes cohesion within a group, like apparently from what I read is like gossip.
There's a purpose for gossip.
If people gossip, it makes them like bond.
It's weird.
Yeah, yeah, no.
Actually, there's this book talks about rumors.
Yeah.
We're going to talk about that.
What are the fruitful ripe terrain for rumors to grow for gossip to grow?
Yeah.
But the act of doing it.
Maybe that's part of the reason.
Part of the reason if you and I need something to connect on, we'll just make fun of
this guy.
We'll talk about this guy.
And we kind of bond, right?
If you hate this guy and I hate this guy, we're both made when the game's saw you.
So, and this says, and you say that you should you should try to prevent those little
like what you click or whatever.
Yeah.
Is there, do you think there's benefit to them actually?
There is benefit to some of those little, little, little, little.
I don't know, little, little.
There are benefits, but it has to be balanced.
Because guess what?
I'm the task unit commander of task unit bruiser.
I have Charlie and Delta Patoon.
I want Charlie and Delta Patoon to be competitive against each other so that they're pushing
to try and become, trying make each other or trying become their best so they can talk
smack to the other guys.
We beat you in this thing.
We beat you in that thing.
Okay, cool.
That's positive.
I want that to happen.
But I don't want is Delta Patoon figures out a good standard operating procedure and doesn't
share it with Charlie Patoon because we want to keep out performing them on this drill or
vice versa.
That's what we don't want to have happen.
So you've got to balance these dichotomies.
Yes.
And you want to have these little competitive groups.
And inside, guess what?
Inside of Charlie Patoon, there's squad one and squad two.
They should compete with each other.
And inside squad one and squad two, inside squad one, you got Fire Team one and Fire Team
two.
And they're competing with each other.
And then inside that Fire Team, we got two swim pairs.
So you want to establish that healthy competition.
But what you want to make sure is that it doesn't cross the boundary into sabotage.
Right.
Yeah.
So it's like it has to remain at all times.
Has to remain within the boundary of the team goal.
Like he can never cross over that.
Right.
Like it has to be.
It all has to support the team goal.
Right.
Whatever.
Yes.
Like it never be taking away from the fact that we have a unified mission to execute and achieve.
We can never let anything undermine that goal.
Yeah.
Ever.
And that right there.
We throw around this term, putting the mission first.
Right.
Like, oh, you got to put the mission first.
We throw that around.
But if you think that through to its ultimate end, it is the most powerful force that you
can have from a leadership perspective, from the way that you operate and the decisions
that you make.
Because you look at some decision that get needs to get made.
And if you truly ask yourself the question, okay.
How will this move us towards our objective in a positive way?
If it will, okay, we're moving in the right direction.
Sounds like a day.
If it's not doing that, it's the wrong decision to make.
And so it comes time to fire someone.
You're firing this person because they talk back to you and they were, they got a bad
attitude.
Okay.
So then you ask yourself, okay, what does this do to our mission?
Our ability to execute our mission.
Well, the guy's a turd and he doesn't know his job well and he's been slacking off,
okay, and no one likes him.
Guess what?
He's getting fired.
But okay, wait a second.
I don't like him.
I don't like him because he rubs me the wrong way.
I don't like him because he's got a big ego, which means he's brushing up against
my big ego, which is making me hold it against him.
And by the way, he's come up with a couple of ideas that were better than mine and
I resent him for that.
And by the way, he's asked some questions during my last brief that were really hard
for me to answer.
He kind of put me on the spot, right?
So all these things.
And so I rack those things up and I start, and now I put together my little click, who's
now I starts in.
He did this and he did this on this op and all this and I got a reason.
Yeah.
And now I need to ask myself, okay, am I furthering the mission?
If I get rid of who's going to replace him.
He has experience, who's going to replace that experience.
He's another body who's going to replace that other body.
And so if you make your decisions based on what's good for the team, by the way, what's
good for the team is what's good for the mission.
You have a team to accomplish the mission.
If your team is dysfunctional, you're not going to accomplish the mission.
If your team is destroyed or part of your team is lost, you can't accomplish the mission.
So if you really truly look is what I'm doing accomplisher, what about your family, right?
Your family mission is to provide for your family and take care of your family.
When you start looking at things from that standpoint, hey, I really want to get this new
car.
Yeah.
Right?
I really like this new car.
Sure.
Okay, we know that that's an emotional decision.
Buying cars for most people is a emotional decision.
Myself included.
Americans, as I'm just Americans, people, love cars.
I don't know if it's because the advertising thing, but cars represent freedom.
You have the ability to travel hundreds and thousands of miles on your own accord.
And maybe you just need to travel to the grocery market, but still the car gives you freedom.
And then the car in a deeper level is a reflection of you.
Yeah, you're a identity.
It's true.
Yeah, this is it's literally something that you get inside of.
And when people look at it, they're looking at the metal and steel version of you.
Your own mind.
Yes.
So it can be hard to drive a 1997 Dodge Grand Caravan with an duct tape on the window.
It can be hard.
The fires, the fires in San Diego in 2003, were you here for those?
Yes, they poured ash everywhere.
So that ruined a lot of paint.
If the cars were sitting outside, so my 1997 Dodge Grand Caravan had all peeled paint.
Look like just horrible.
The old paint is like a dark red, but then there were these flakes of clear stuff all
over it falling off.
So if you looked at that car and I saw that car as a reflection of me, it was pretty
low reflection, nothing gets my brothers out there that are driving the many vans.
Props.
You got the family.
You make that your priority.
Because what I could have done back in the day was say, you know what, I really want to get
whatever.
The Ford F350 Super Duty Doole Extended King Cab.
You know what I'm saying?
Look, trim.
That's me.
I want to look like that on the outside.
So then what is my decision making, bro?
Do I need that vehicle?
I live in San Diego by the way.
I live in San Diego.
What do I do with my vehicle?
I drive to work.
I drive home.
I take my kids to the Jitsu tournaments.
That's what I do with my vehicle.
Do I need a F350 Super Duty Doole Extended Cab Diesel 7.3 Power Stroke Engine.
Do I need that?
I don't know.
Kind of.
No.
I don't.
So what is the mission?
What is the mission?
First of all, we know that when I buy a car, it's going down in value.
I buy a piece of property, I buy a house, I buy a home that's going to go up in value.
Over time, sure, it might go up and down a little bit, but over time it's going to go
up in value.
Over time, my kids can have that in 30 years that they don't want that Ford in 30
years.
That things barely even run in 30 years.
So what is my mission?
My mission is to provide for the family, protect the family, take care of the family,
set them up for success in the future.
What do I need to drive?
I need to drive a Dodge Caravan.
That's what I need to drive.
I understand.
So if you frame things correctly about what your broad mission is, you're going to do
better off, you're going to make better decisions as a leader.
That's the way it's going to be.
Oh.
And by the way, speaking of leaders, here we go back to the book.
The most serious of all causes for an epidemic of dissension is the bad leader.
When, as sometimes happens in any organization like an army, men have placed over them
a man, they do not trust.
One who loves to show his authority and throw his rank around on unreasonable, martinette.
The whole outfit will be filled with resentment.
This is impossible to show this antagonism to the officer who is at fault.
The troops go around with chips on their shoulders, daring each other to knock them off.
The only way to wipe out such an infection of dissension is to track down and remove the
cause.
If men believe they have a grievance, even if the complaint is unjustified, they should
be permitted to tell their troubles to someone in authority.
If an officer gives them a patient hearing, investigates conditions with a fair and open
mind and explains his findings to the men, they will usually be satisfied.
Even in cases where it is impossible to do much to correct the objectionable state of affairs.
This is such good advice.
Guess what?
When you're in a leadership position, you're going to have people that are going to complain
about things they're going to see problems.
And what you should do in those situations is less than.
Listen to what the team has to say, listen to what that individual has to say.
Get feedback.
That's what you should do.
Back to the book, just telling their troubles to a willing listener serves to get the air
cleared.
And in cases where men make constructive suggestions for correcting conditions, they will
take in the organization a pride that they never had before.
So, guys, tell us what you're doing.
Listen up, that I asked you to do something to give suggestions, use it and get them
credit.
These are reasons why for many years in our army, any officer or soldier has been free
to telegrevens to the Inspector General said periodically to each place where there are
troops.
Inspector General's like an internal affairs type situation.
But you should need to resort to that.
If you're a good commander and a good leader when the internal affairs people show up, they
get told, hey, everything's awesome.
They have no grievances to put out there because they already told you and then you gave
them an answer.
And then people say, what if I can't answer the grievances?
Well, then you figure out what the answer is.
If my subordinate comes to me and says, hey, this is, we're not getting the right food
out here.
Well, I don't want to say, well, sorry.
No, I say, okay, let me see what I can do about it.
Hey, this is what's going on.
By the way, there's a lack of flight, heading in this direction.
The supply trains are getting blown up by IEDs.
We have an alternate plan for food.
We're going to try and make it happen in a couple months, but right now we kind of got
what we got.
And now what do you say?
You screw you?
No, you go, okay, I understand.
We're at war for a kind of all out.
I understand I'm not going to get steak dinner every night.
It's not happening.
Even though we might want it, we're not going to get it.
So here are those grievances.
It, some people get concerned that if you start taking grievances from people, then it turns
into a bitch session.
Right?
You heard this word, this term before.
The bitch session.
I'm actually in general, not scared of bitch sessions.
I'm not scared of them because if you ask me a good question, or you ask me a question,
I should have an answer for it.
I'm the leader.
If you're in my platoon and you have a question for me, I should be able to answer.
If you have a bitch, I should be able to give you a reason why that is occurring.
And why we either can move forward with some kind of a corrective measure or why we cannot
because the following limitations that were under.
So I'm not really scared of bitch sessions unfolding.
Have I seen them become unproductive?
Absolutely.
Especially see them become unproductive when we start to like lose the conversation.
And if the leader, if you ask me a question and I say because, if you say, hey, why can't
we get better food?
And I say because then you say because of what?
And I say because I said so.
Now we're going to have a problem.
Now this bitch session just became unproductive.
If you say hey, Jocco, we've been here for two months.
Why can't we get some better food?
I'm like, you know what?
Right now I don't even know because I agree with you.
The food is pretty bad and I like food.
And so let me take a note here.
I'm going to write down what I've sent it up to chain of command.
We can figure out, what's going on?
Why we don't get to have good food and be if there's a way we can possibly start making
this happen.
I hear you.
Bitch is now subdued.
Right?
I mean, has been subdued because I gave you a legitimate answer.
I didn't even give you a solution by any stretch.
I just gave you an answer.
I just took your information and heard what you had to say, which is legitimate.
I've seen people where they they they they send up a complaint and then they get subdued.
But then the the leader doesn't follow up on the complaint.
I don't follow up and actually go up the chain of command and say why don't we get
better food.
That's going to be a problem.
Next session.
Hey, you said you're going to do some what's the answer and I say well, I'll I'll
I'll but the bit now you're bad.
Rightfully so.
And that's really it.
That's really that what tells the tale because I go case of bitch session.
Right.
That'll I mean along with complaints come what I think is more important than like the
complaint or the issue that's complain about more important is the motivation to complain.
So let's say the food is junk.
Right.
If I think if I'm mad about that, if that bothers me whether because I think the food should
literally be better.
It should be better right now.
Yeah.
I don't know why it's better right now, but I think it should be in that makes that
bothers me at the very least that produces a motivation to complain.
But if the food can be just as bad.
But if I have an explanation, I have no motivation to complain because I'm mad at
that it's understandable.
So a bitch session will develop when those feeling those motivations to complain are
maintained or escalated.
So like if you're like so, why?
Because I said so I'm still mad.
Totally.
But I'm not even a little bit more mad because the way you said that to.
So that's when those bitch bitch sessions will come.
Or if you get a couple of people making the same complaint and then another couple of people
like kind of refuting it or something like that.
Or anywhere where there's emotions kind of, and one key factor that you brought up is the
building up.
If you're constantly communicating with your people, then the bitch sessions don't build
up.
It's when you decide, when do you block yourself in your own vacuum and you don't listen
to what anyone has to say and then once every six months you go, hey guys, we're going
to have a Q&A.
If you guys have any questions for me, you guys can come in there.
You guys can ask me questions.
Well these guys have been brewing up questions for the last six months.
They've been drinking.
They've got some questions, boy, and they're going to hit you with a mark.
So you, that if you want to prevent the bitch session from getting out of control, guess
what, communicate with your people more often.
It'll take that question about why is the food so bad?
By the time it's six months deep and that guy's been eating crappy food for six months,
there's almost no solution that you can provide that's going to be good for him.
By the way, you wasted six months of trying to find a solution.
So that's just wrong.
So you're already starting off with really negative situation.
So communicate with your people a lot.
Don't be afraid.
If you, if they ask me a question, I don't know the answer to.
Cool.
You say, hey, let me write this down.
Let me run this up to Chainedic Command and find out what's going on with that because
I don't know the answer.
What if they ask me a question that I don't like the answer to?
I don't like this.
I don't like what I've been told.
Wait, you have the leader.
I'm as the leader and someone says, I get told, hey, you're not getting food because
we prioritize one of the other potoons and they're getting all the steak, which by the way,
would never happen.
But if they did that and then someone says, hey, why are we getting this bad food?
And I go, well, it's because they gave it to you on the potoon.
I wouldn't say, I would answer the question truthfully, which is like, listen, this
is what's going on right now.
For some reason, they gave the other potoon all the steak.
Believe me, we have no greater champion for steak in this potoon than me.
I am personally flying to see the boss and I'm going to figure out what's going on.
We will get steak.
You know what I mean?
As opposed to just being mad or not wanting to give the answer, trying to hide it, I don't
know what's going on.
I don't know why we're not getting steak.
You know why you're not getting steak?
Tell everyone.
Yeah.
Don't.
The more open you are.
And of course, there's a dichotomy to this too because we can go too far and telling the truth.
We can tell people the truth about things that they don't need to know about, right?
Yeah.
So you do have to be careful about that.
You have to be careful.
You have to be judicious in telling the truth.
You have to make sure that it makes sense in accomplishing the long term mission.
If I tell everyone that we're not getting food because we got caught off and we're
out here on our own and we have about three days worth of food and water and by the
way we're not going to live and we're all going to die.
Yeah.
So we should be happy with this.
That's that's that's not going to help my mission.
Now I could I could turn that into something that says listen, what here's going on right
now we're caught off and here's the mission of going to undertake to make this happen.
That's probably not a great example, but I think we all understand that there's times
if you screw up a video, if you put a video together for me and it's got the worst
Christmas music to the video.
Another terrible example.
Yeah.
I don't just drop the hammer on you and say you suck it at it.
You know, I kind of think that at the moment.
Instead I say hey, I like what you put together, you know, maybe can you explain why you did
this music selection?
Because for me it's a little bit different than what I would expect.
Sure.
Yeah.
Thank you for that.
Check.
Going back to the book incidentally, but most important.
I keep adding emphasis to things that are literally not this book.
So what that actually says is incidentally but importantly, it doesn't say most important.
I added that.
It's not.
There's a second time I've done that.
I've taken something to the next level even though just on my own accord.
Pay your phone just being right.
So what it says is incidentally in parentheses, but importantly, this method of dealing
with this fact, dissatisfaction cheats the fifth columnist and solbit saboteur who made
lurk in the camp.
It is much safer for the army that mentioned poor their gripes into the ears of an
officer than that they should spill them in a beer joint in town or in any other place where
outsiders can listen.
Another method of handling dissension and over aggression is by punishment.
This is the chosen method of dictatorships and auto-cratic organizations generally.
The method is commonly used even in America and most children have to learn that when
they feel aggressive punishment is not that far away.
So another thing you can do in somebody asks, you know a question, hey, Jocco, can you tell
us why we're not getting any stake?
I'll tell you why.
We're not getting stake because you haven't worked hard enough.
Guess what you're doing tonight.
K-P-Doodie or whatever.
When I punish you for asking your question, that's like what auto-crats do.
Dictators do that.
Back to the book.
Sometimes the soldiers troubles cannot be attributed to anyone person.
They are due to the conditions of war or of army life.
An ambitious and energetic man may find himself so wound up and red tape that he cannot
do a good job.
An organization may be all set to go forward to an objective but is hindered by failure
of supplies by shortages, by weather.
No one is to blame.
Which I kind of disagree with that statement because I was here in charge of that.
If you're in charge of that, then guess what?
You should have figured out how to get the supplies there in time.
You should have figured out a contingency plan for the weather.
But what they're talking about is sometimes things go wrong and continuing on.
This natural need for someone to blame and punish when things go wrong.
Responsible for much race and religious prejudice is also the cause for most corals that
grow up between allies and between one branch of the service and another.
So when you have these inner service rivalries, because there's no one else to blame,
you have organizations where the production guys, the sales guys are selling stuff and
the builders of the stuff, the engineers that design the stuff aren't getting it to
them in time.
When they're getting it to them in time, that's fine.
But this the market is down and they start to hate none each other when they should be
focusing on how to adjust to the market adaptations that need to be made or the market adjustments
that need to be made and said they're going at each other's throats.
Why?
Because they're looking for someone to blame.
No one look for someone to blame.
Figure out what the problem is and solve it.
Back the book, an occasional individual in any large group appears to contradict all the rules
about how aggression was built up.
He will turn nasty when he's, this is a really interesting psychological profile.
So I'm going to read this again.
An occasional individual in any large group appears to contradict all the rules about
how aggression was built up.
He will turn nasty when he is treated with kindness and becomes very docile under punishment
or frustration.
He is excessively polite and cooperative as long as he is kept in a subordinate position,
but when he is put in command of other man, he becomes tyrannical and overbearing.
Such peculiar behaviors often result of two severe punishment of self-assertion or aggressiveness
in childhood.
This man is carrying around his own grouches and resentments, bottled up inside of him.
He is deeply anxious to punish and hurt other people, but as long as he is faced with
a threat of punishment himself, he retains his childhood fear of showing his feelings.
As soon as other people treat him decently and no longer appear like a threat to him,
then his meanness lashes out.
People who have this curious reversal of normal reaction to other people's kindness or aggressiveness
often like to boast that they are tough or hard and that they respect a man who will stand
up to them.
This boast is an explanation that fools many people, even including the explainer and
self.
Actually the respect they claim to feel is nothing but an unconscious fear, a secret
fear that the rebellious subordinate will punish them.
Such men make poor leaders.
They make their subordinates angry and uncooperative.
They work best when alone.
And this continues on, the good leader is not afraid of criticism from his subordinates.
Amen.
I guess is what I would say to that.
A good leader is not afraid of criticism from the subordinates.
He will encourage it as a constructive and cooperative way of eliminating causes for resentment
and dissension.
And he will use it himself in dealing with his subordinates, but the criticism should
be constructive and directed at some true cause of the difficulty not some imagined evil
or some harmless and defentheless person of the group.
It should not be a means of passing the buck.
Here are some rules for critics to keep in mind.
So when you want to start throwing darts at the old man, one stick to things that can be
corrected.
Don't criticize dead issues or unalterable situations.
You even know some people just get stuck.
They get stuck on something and they'll just never let it go.
Hey, that happened three months ago.
I get it was a bad decision.
If I could go back and time, I'd do it in a different way.
I didn't.
That's the call that got made.
Here's the adjustments we've made from what we learned and here's where we're going forward.
Are you good with that?
You have an omg just saying it was, I can't.
Two be specific.
Keep to concrete issues.
Say what?
Three limit the issue.
Don't blame the brass hats or the men in general.
Say who that's a good one.
A lot of the time we were just like to blame them.
They did it.
To just practical solutions to problems don't arouse emotion without suggesting what to
do about it.
Say how?
Five stick to facts.
Don't swallow rumors, especially accidents by our rumors.
Six criticized leaders or men for their acts and policies, not for their personalities.
Seven put blame where it belongs.
I don't find scapegoats.
I was going to ask, why is it?
I wonder why it's so like appealing for like a better term to blame other people.
I mean I guess when you think about it it feels like if I don't have to blame myself
that's a safety thing.
We'll start there and then sure someone will blame other things that are not people.
Like I don't know the weather or whatever but it's almost like it seems more satisfying
to blame other people.
I don't know maybe because they don't.
It feels satisfying because it takes the blame off of you.
Even more than blaming the weather whether it's almost like it's more satisfying because
if I can blame someone else because someone else has the capability of actively trying
to get in the way of my success.
It's almost like this is what it feels like.
I think I'm just wondering.
I don't feel good about blaming anything or anybody or anyone.
Yeah because you're really in touch with that part of things.
I'm just saying by nature because it has to be a natural thing.
It has to be like a natural reaction to something I would think.
In different people have it worth another thing.
I would say that's a reaction that's not too natural and it's a reaction that you have
to nourish and raise correctly in yourself because when a little kid spells the
milk.
When you walk into the kitchen and your daughter sitting there in the milk is spilled
over she says, you say what happened?
She says the milk spilled.
She's blaming the milk and anandement object.
Right.
Already and she's four years old.
Five years old.
Right.
I'm the same way.
Everyone starts off that way.
Blow to our ego to take the blame for things.
We don't like to do it.
So it's not like it's something you have to mature into.
It's something you have to figure out over time and the more you figure it out, the better
off you're going to be.
I was talking with Dave Burke about this.
Good deal, Dave.
He was really fired up one day and the fire was coming.
And I forget even what you know how we got on this topic.
Actually, I do think we were talking about a client that we have at echelon front and he
was trying to explain to them that everything like trying to explain to the boss, the
CEO, everything, everything is your fault, everything.
And I got to, no, no, I get it.
But yeah.
No, no, no, no.
I'm all about extreme ownership.
I get it, man.
That's a great book.
And I'm definitely taking ownership of what's going on here.
But there's always a butt, but the market, but the guys that are hired, but the person
that I partnered with, but the person I bought the company from, but it goes on and on.
But the real estate that we least, it just goes on and on.
And guess what?
None of those are your problem.
None of those are your fault.
Guess what?
You're never going to fix any of them.
So the idea that this stuff is 100% your fault.
100% your fault.
That's going on in your team.
That's that it's hard to get that through your brain.
Anyone's brain.
Yeah, it's weird.
You like you ever, you know, when you're a kid or something, or whether you witnessed someone
else do this or you do it where it's like, let's say you lost something.
Right.
That's the first reaction.
Who took my, whatever.
What do you mean?
Who took it?
That's a seal curse.
So the seal curse, if you lose something, as soon as you say, hey, you took my, or hey, somebody
stole my, as soon as you, those words come out of your mouth, you're going to, it's going
to appear in front of you.
You can actually do it like to find something to evolve.
Excuse me, I'm so funny.
I'm going to do this.
I'm going to find an immediate, yeah.
That's probably my earliest memory in the seal teams of, don't blame people.
Is that right there?
Because if you, you can't find your, second mark life jacket, whatever.
Yeah.
So when you took my second mark, oh, there it is.
It's a willing stencil.
The JKO stencils on that one over there.
It was underneath another one.
Yeah.
But yes, that's something that we all do.
But it's like a natural thing to think, be good.
Okay.
So I have these, these slippers at home.
Do you mean flip flops?
No.
That's the thing.
They're, they're nice.
Because no way we call flip flops.
Flip flops.
Yes, exactly.
But these are slippers.
Just flying in and out of like when you're walking and whatever.
And so flip flops, like if you, let's say you're wearing flip flops or fangs, flip flops, right?
That's flip flops or.
So they're not that.
Because if you're wearing socks, which I have been recently, because it's kind of chilly.
But it's all wear socks.
So you can't just slide in and out of flip flops with socks on.
Not that good, you know, if I'm going to take out the trash or something like this.
So anyway, I have these slippers real comfortable to their like just regular Nike, like slippers,
whatever.
So when I can't find them for a moment, you know, there's literally like six or seven
places that are far away from each other by the way.
And my house is that six out of place that they could struggle as real.
Yes, that goes.
All of my slippers are located far distance inside my own house.
Yeah.
They're really far apart.
Okay.
I look in what place number one, they're not there.
Place number two, they're not there.
I automatically go my wife took wearing my slippers.
For someone grabbed my slippers, you know, that's like the thing.
Even more so than the, you know, the four, five other places that I could easily, you know,
so I think that's why I think it's a natural thing.
It is a natural thing.
Yes, you are correct.
I've been saying that for the whole time, you and I have been doing this podcast.
It's a natural thing to blame someone else.
Yeah.
This idea of extreme ownership of actually taking ownership of problems that you have
is very important.
Yeah.
And it's hard to enact.
It's not, it's not comfortable.
Yeah.
There's no one.
And even when people eat the book and they listen to everybody podcast and they talk about
it with their troops, even then it's very easy to slide into an excuse and you blame
someone or something else.
And the problem with those excuses are they don't ever solve themselves.
They don't fix themselves.
You can control you.
So take control over everything.
Take ownership of everything so that you can make them the way that they should be.
What's the dichotomy in this?
That's why we wrote dichotomy leadership.
Some people took that and said, okay, well, I'm just going to do everything myself.
Yeah.
I'm just, oh, John, I was going to hold everything.
So now I'm going to, you know what, echo, send me a script for the video you're making
right now.
I want to review it.
Right?
I'm going to call when you like draw the pictures send me up.
Storyboard for your next video.
Ownership.
No, that's not what I'm talking about.
There's a balance.
Yeah.
So there's a question.
Keep it.
You have to keep it balance.
So this question, right now, not really care about the answer.
So is it easier to blame another person or just something else?
Like something else.
Something else.
Okay, this is a original point.
Yeah.
And to me, it's the point is no matter.
I feel equally horrible.
I actually feel more horrible blaming another person.
You seem to feel better about that.
No, no, no, no, no, no.
I feel worse.
I feel bad.
I'm breath.
I'm with you.
Okay.
Whether you believe me or not, I'm breath.
Blaming like something other than yourself, it does feel really, really whack.
Yes.
Really whack.
But and that's kind of the rule now.
I think after like four to six months of like dealing with you and this stuff, it's
like you became like a rule.
Is it consciously or whatever?
So is it identify another people do it too?
Yes, fully.
Well, I was.
Yeah.
And you feel it in yourself even if you have the thought, like you feel it.
But so I was thinking wondering, and I guess it doesn't matter, right?
Because the rule is the rule, but is it easier to blame a person?
Because it's more comforting.
It's easier to blame a thing because then it's free.
There's no guilt involved.
Whether it was bad.
That's why we failed.
Well, the weather doesn't get mad at you because even when I'm like, hey, I go screwed
up and drop the ball.
That's why we failed.
You are going to be mad at you.
Yeah.
The weather's not going to be like, hey, you got a flat tire.
That's why I'm late.
You should have left earlier.
No, no, no, no, no.
You're like, that's blaming.
That's me taking ownership.
Yeah.
You know?
But it's easy.
But wouldn't it be more comforting to be like, hey, someone flat?
Like let's say you walked out to your car and your tire was flat.
It'd be more comforting if someone was actively trying to get in your way.
Because it seems more like, okay.
That's why I got defeated by the situation.
I don't have a solution.
I don't have an alternative.
I think to me, say, hey, I walked out of the other's a nail in my thing.
Yeah.
You might take that one step.
But somebody left a nail in my thing.
Yeah, I assume saying no.
I mean, I wouldn't, I don't think of it.
Maybe I wouldn't know.
I don't know.
Your sweat in this distinction.
Don't blame other people or other things.
That's what you do.
You don't blame other people or other things.
I'm reveling in the understanding.
Don't revel in it.
Just do.
Just a whole action.
Yeah, yeah.
You're right.
And you know what?
We're going to wrap for today.
We haven't even covered the major, the one of the main reasons why I'm covering this
book.
We haven't even got to yet.
So if we haven't even gotten to it yet, I don't want to jump into it right now because
it's good.
This is a book where I'm highlighting entire pages.
Entire pages.
I'm just, so I want to have time to discuss this properly.
We will not have time to discuss the rest of this properly today.
So one thing we do have hopefully time to discuss properly.
It's questionable because I know someone said the other day, I said on the podcast,
A, all we need to do is just wrap this up.
And they looked at their podcast, the player.
And there was 47 minutes left.
So it took you 47 minutes.
I'm blaming you.
I know.
I know I am at least partially guilty for lengthy sections of the podcast because what
I can't refrain from doing is making a little comment that spurns you to talk about Hawaii
5O.
Sure.
Other important topics.
So we'll continue with this book next week right now if you, if you want to compete.
Sure.
In life, look, I'm not saying you got to look at life as one big competition, win or lose.
But I'm saying you should at least consider that that's kind of happening whether you
want it to be happening or not.
In that view, you want to get on a path of victory, a path of discipline, a path of winning.
And I know you have some things that might help us in there.
Yes, sir.
Echo Charles.
So it is one of these, so if you like the way you live your life, right?
You're, it's like you're preparing for a battle metaphorically or whatever.
Right.
So sure, you're not competing with me or with whatever in every single little thing.
In fact, you're a big part of what you do is collaborate with me.
True.
Good.
But it's a weekend win, so we can win exactly right.
And in addition to that, if you wake up just one moment and you're in the company,
the heated competition of whatever, you're going to be more prepared to win.
Yes, sir.
If you put yourself in stressful situations, you'll be more prepared when the real
stress comes.
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
So let's say, you get to, for example, right?
Stress situation, you can put yourself right into.
Yeah.
So let's daily base and think about this too.
And where, you know, the whole collaboration competition balance goes,
give me and you, we're competing in you too with each other when we train, right?
Or end we're competing with ourselves because you're using me to just get better in general.
So sure, there's a part of it that's like you're trying to defeat me, whatever.
But the main part is you're trying to defeat, you know, the gut yourself, you know,
a month ago or a day ago, whatever.
Yes, trying to get better.
And to do that, you have to collaborate with me who's going to provide that stress.
Yeah.
On you.
See, so it's always like, I think there's always an overarching competition.
That's what's called the life game.
Yeah.
Exactly.
With varying levels of, oh come on.
Lots of little competitions along the way.
Some of them are important.
Some of them are some you've got a surrender.
Yeah.
Because it's going to propel you further in the long game.
Some of them will feel like they should be a competition when they should be a collaboration.
This should be.
Okay.
Anyway, back to you, too.
Just to.
We're doing, we're all doing, you did, too.
If you're not, then just, you have to.
Yes.
Essentially, have to to know the path, probably.
One thing that's good about you, too, is,
it is also, I talked about combat and war being a revealer.
Judges is revealing, too.
It feels about things about yourself.
It reveals things about human nature.
It reveals things about your ego.
It reveals things about your temper.
It reveals a lot of things.
And it reveals those things about other people.
And you start to be able to sense and understand other people better because you see
their reactions, you see how they respond, you see how they get through or don't get through
trying situations.
Yeah.
It's really.
And so there's some really good benefits.
Beyond the fact that you will get a good workout, beyond the fact that you will truly
learn to defend yourself in bad situations, you will also learn about life.
Yes.
You will learn about people.
And you will learn about yourself.
Yes, sir.
So go down to your local Judges to Academy and tell me you want to train some of the
Judges to that's kind of abstract.
The way you said what's true.
You know, you'll learn about life, not abstract, sorry.
It's not a joke.
No, no, no.
Yeah, you're right.
It's general though.
Here's something specific.
What if I told you, I've learned more about life and people and myself from
Judges who that I have learned about self defense from Judges who.
Yeah, in that whole state.
I don't know what that would be like.
But I'm not.
I'm not.
Because I don't think I've learned a lot.
But I've learned so much about actually fighting.
Yes.
So that's kind of a what I just said.
Not really.
Could be for others though.
There's a lot.
Yeah, but I don't want to exaggerate.
Well, he and lie.
Well, here's why we said well, here's why I started and whether I mean, I think you started
before this event.
So, okay.
So there's there is this family.
They said, hey, we developed this martial art, you know, whatever.
Is there a reason you're not saying the Gracie family?
Yeah, well, it's going to develop it in a story.
But yes, so the Gracie family, they developed their martial art.
They were like, hey, this is our fighting style.
A real fighting now.
So let's this is what we're going to do.
We're going to invite everyone from the all around the world with whatever fighting style
no matter how big no matter how small the guy is, whatever fighting style.
We're going to invite everybody to come come like fight.
No time limit.
No rules.
No nothing.
Everyone's going to fight.
See who's fighting style.
This is the best.
Right?
Sounds like an old school like movie or something.
Yeah.
That's true.
Straight up happened.
I mean, 1993.
Right.
Yeah.
Colorado.
So they come and.
Hoist Gracie, who's 165 pounds.
No, he's not 165 pounds.
He's not 165 pounds.
At the time, he's one five.
I don't think so.
I think he was like one, 62 or three actually.
What's with hoist?
Yeah.
You see, one, two, three, one, two, four.
If you rolled with hoist before, no.
He's not small bro.
Yeah, he's tall.
He's tall.
But he's thinner.
He's thinner.
But he's not like skinny.
And he wasn't skinny back then.
He must have waited at least 180.
I'm going to give him 180.
What we'll talk to hoist and get confirmation.
We'll talk to some of our people.
I think one, 60.
Yeah.
Anyway, if he was 160, I would have to check the scales.
Well, none of the last.
Now, have you ever heard that they reasoned hoist was fighting and not Hickson is because
Hoist was smaller and slender and looked less imposing.
Yeah.
Didn't Hickson.
Who did look imposing?
Right.
Yeah.
And that was kind of an added look for imposing.
Who looked more imposing?
Hickson Gracie or Ken Shamrock.
Ken Shamrock.
Ken Shamrock looked real imposing.
Oh, yeah.
That's why it was so shocking when hoist had 160 pounds apparently tapped him out.
Yeah.
So the story, the facts go.
This is what happened.
You can watch them on the old videos.
So they called it the ultimate fighting challenge.
It's what they called it.
The UFC.
Sure.
So hoist Gracie spriesingly beats up everyone.
This wasn't the kind of like you have one fight in one night.
No, no.
This is like four fights in a row.
If you win, you go on.
You know, no time limit, by the way.
Four contact fighting.
Headbutt.
Like whatever.
Yeah.
Kicking the groin, whatever.
Anyway.
Hoist Gracie beats everybody including Ken Shamrock who's like, well, he was like 220.
He was a rich kid.
Right.
Shoot fighting wrestling.
Like just a bad ask.
I went for a fuck.
He went for a fuck.
When she's crazy, he's got on top.
Yeah.
And Hoist knew to defend it.
That's even crazier.
You know, go out and talk and choke them up.
And then guys like who I don't think people talking about this guy.
Pat Smith.
Pat Smith is a beast.
They're not cool kickboxing champions.
Like 250 and no.
That's what it said on the video.
Um, bad just a tough bad ask.
Because you was beating guys up real bad.
In fact, he beat this ninja guy up on UFC 2.
Yeah.
That was like as a kid, watch out.
I was like dang, that's like, this is brutal man.
This is like scary brutal.
And nowadays that's nothing.
You know, you watch UFC now.
But nonetheless it was brutal then.
And Hoist Gracie beat him up.
He didn't do a submission hold on him.
He just had him in Mount.
Oh yeah.
And just punching him down.
He just tried to do this.
You know.
Anyway, so the point is, Hoist Gracie with Gracie Jiu Jitsu,
which is Brazilian Jiu Jitsu.
It's an exchange of hold.
And beat up everyone.
Proving that it's like the ultimate fighting style.
Yeah.
So that's why that's the number one reason I think most people go into Jitsu.
That's definitely a good reason.
I think well, back that I would say this.
That's the number one reason in 1993, 1994, 1995.
Why people want to Jiu Jitsu.
I think Jiu Jitsu now is, I think Jiu Jitsu as a whole is more popular.
You can get Jiu Jitsu from anywhere.
I mean, at wrestling tournaments, there's all kinds of kids they're walking out.
Jiu Jitsu, T-shirts on.
They didn't want to even, they weren't even, they were, they're 12 years old.
Yeah.
And now they don't remember 1993.
Think about something that happened whatever 20 years before you reborn.
So I think it was something that happened in 1957.
I can't think of one single thing.
And that's what I'm saying.
That's the first UFC happened to these kids 20 years before they were born.
Yeah.
They don't remember it.
It's not even a thing.
They do remember it's like, oh,
if someone kid down the street knows how to fight, he choked me.
I want to learn that.
Yeah. Well, if they're watching ultimate fight night,
last night or the other night or whatever,
and they saw Crongrace.
Yes.
Show got the guy in UFC.
In the first round.
Yes.
Someone's going to join Jiu Jitsu because that anyway, that is true.
That was true.
A beautiful display of Jiu Jitsu.
Very crong-garic from Crongracey.
Yeah.
That always feels good because it's a reminder because it's easy.
Like now because everyone knows Jiu Jitsu.
You know, very levels or whatever.
And you have to see.
But when you get a guy who's like so good at Jiu Jitsu,
every once in a while like he'll end him in Maya would do this too.
They'd remind everyone like how powerful if you're just really good at Jiu Jitsu.
And the other guy doesn't quite have those elements or whatever.
You don't remind me of that.
Dean Lister.
He reminds me of that a lot.
Yeah.
For sure.
Nonetheless, well, we're in Jiu Jitsu and we need to get what he do.
We get origin.
Gees.
Made America.
Yeah.
From the cotton all the way up to the gees.
Made America for Jiu Jitsu.
Not many other martial arts as well.
Just for Jiu Jitsu.
Specifically not Ikido.
They're not made for Ikido.
No, no.
4 Jiu Jitsu.
Made America.
They're they're the best gees.
Stretching out.
Get.
There's not even any question about that one.
OriginMain.com.
Also got rash guards.
Rash guards if you need rash guards for your no-gu situation.
They got t-shirts.
Sweat shirts.
Jeans.
Peach is sent me a picture.
Jeans coming off the rack.
They're in production at this time.
Good jeans.
So be ready to get jeans.
Also supplements.
Mm-hmm.
From origin labs.
That's kind of supplements.
Kind of maintain your joints joint warfare.
I sure are incurred.
A hip.
Injury.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah.
The other day.
It's really bad that night.
So I don't overdo.
Can you overdo some joint warfare?
I'm not sure.
I haven't tried.
So I add just one pill.
Usually I take, how much do you take a night?
Three.
Okay.
I take three in the morning for it night.
So I went two and two.
Okay.
And I'm like, I'm just going to do this or whatever.
And it is the difference between night one of the injury and night two of the injury
was surprising given how the injury felt.
There you go.
So this is it.
Yes.
So joint warfare.
And these are the, now I think these are the most important kind of supplements.
There is.
I think I agree with you.
Joint warfare, krill oil, discipline and discipline go.
When you need a little bit of need to get in.
You need to get up on step is what we call it in the teams.
Well, and what that means is you're in a little zodiac boat.
And the zodiac boat going across the water with a 55 horsepower engine.
If you're out on the on the west coast on the east coast, they use a smaller engine on the west coast.
You use a big 55 horsepower engine because you're out in the Pacific and the waves are freaking huge.
But the reaches a point where kind of the, the boats like trying to push and then it gets on the,
it's like in the water and then it gets kind of on the surface of the water.
Mm-hmm.
In all of a sudden it goes,
mmm.
And then you're going fast.
You're on step.
Yeah.
Getting on step.
I don't know where that comes from.
Huh.
But in zodiac.
So it's like the perfect zone where it gets the water.
Catch the water.
But no drag.
Yes.
That's the minimum amount of drag for the boat.
And that's what I feel like when I take discipline go.
Yeah.
I've got to go.
Let's say I'm going to meet with someone.
I take like, you know, in a meeting, I'm going to be working with a company.
Takes me to this one.
Go get the mind firing correctly.
That's that.
Don't forget about Mok.
Additional protein.
A delicious way.
Well, you can call it additional protein or you can just call it dessert straight on.
Yes.
I had three scoops of Warrior Kid strawberry moke.
And I was just sitting there drinking it and being happy about the world.
Guilt, three guilt.
But look, can you can you can beverage make you happy to be alive?
Yes.
Warrior Kid strawberry moke can make you happy to just be in the world and just be looking
and be sipping on it and being and having a whole, a whole big cup.
And you're just every sip is you're not even, you're not even rationing yourself
at all.
It's just a way sipping.
Just free form just as much as you can put in your mouth like just beautiful strawberry
moke.
And I'm really getting crazy now where I'm, I'm really scatter brain.
I'm like peanut butter moke.
You can go right on the plate.
Yeah.
So anyways, that's that.
Very good.
All that stuff is at originmain.com.
Also, jacquoise a store.
It's called jacquoise store.
And that's where you can be on the path for sure.
Be on the path requirement.
But if you want to represent while on the path.
Go to jacquoise store.com, got some cool shirts on there.
More rash guards.
Yeah.
More representative of the paths specifically.
Some hoodies on there.
Short hats.
Specifically or flex fit.
Whatever you like, bad.
Both.
However you want to represent.
And here's the thing, look.
I don't know if I'm going to put zip up hoodies on there.
I don't know.
I think so.
That might not be your thing.
They better be so thick.
Maybe they'll be the whole world.
That the whole world that the whole world stops and says,
If I was in somewhere cold, I would wear that.
Not the whole world will say.
Because actually that makes sense.
If you go ultra thick with the zip up,
the reason you want zip up is because you got other clothes on.
Some awkward taking it on and off over head.
That's why you got the zip.
It's a real heavy duty.
I prefer the zip.
Light or heavy.
Yeah.
But you prefer the pull over as you indicate.
I don't want to play it.
Like the pull over if we're talking about medium weight.
But if we're going to ultra heavy weight,
which no one has showed me ultra heavy weight.
I want to see ultra heavy weight.
I want something that actually is a hard to pick up kind of.
Physically heavy.
Well, I think nonetheless, I think I'm going to go with some zip up stuff for
Jocco store.
That's what I think.
Okay.
Brainstorm.
As you brain storm that, let me see the samples and let me talk to the producers of the fabric.
Okay.
So I can make sure that it is the heaviest and most durable and warmest fabric.
All right.
That will.
It's a promise.
All right.
There it is.
It's at joccostore.com.
Go in there.
Do you like something?
Get something.
Good way to represent while you're on the path.
Also, jocco like tea.
If you were RIT drinker or not a tea drinker,
still drink jocco white tea for various reasons.
So I gave some of this to my neighbor.
We're doing some things.
You know, and she goes, oh my gosh.
Yes, you know, like it was the one in the can.
So my wife gave her three of them.
And she's like, oh my gosh, thank you so much.
This is so good.
And it's so hard to find tea and a can that certified organic.
Yeah.
Like that was the front running thing for us.
So I'm like looking at her like understanding that she has no idea that she can like dead live
8,000 pounds.
No, or you know, like all these other added benefits.
But nonetheless, it really demonstrated how vast the benefits.
Yeah.
You know, and the people.
It's kind of a weird perspective to have on life when you when you rate certified organic
over a guaranteed of deadlift of 8,000 pounds.
And I know clinically, you know, it's crazy little bit straight.
But nonetheless, after, you know, a little bit of thought I understand because you know, this is nice lady lives next door.
And you know, I dug it either way.
But one of the added benefits was brought to the surface.
And I like this.
Speaking of benefits, subscribe to the podcast, which we were going to stop saying until
people noted that they didn't subscribe to the podcast until echo actually said it on podcast
64 or no 163. And so it was like, I listened to 163 podcasts and hadn't subscribed.
So subscribe to the podcast or echo will keep telling you to and don't forget about the war, your kid podcast,
lagging, lagging on the war, your kid podcast.
And I got told by young Alana, you know, Alana, sure.
I got told by Alana's dad.
He said he, she said, he said, she has memorized the first whatever it is.
21 podcast.
And I said, I looked at her and I said, I'm sorry.
I'll make more and she said it's okay.
But she didn't mean it.
I don't think she meant it.
And I think she was kind of like just being nice.
It's a nice girl.
I don't think she wanted to say, yeah, you should.
Yeah.
Some more podcasts.
The first 21 are getting worn out.
War your kid podcast.
Good podcast for kids to learn a really solid lessons about life.
Don't forget about the war your kid.
War your kid soap Irish Oaks Ranch.com.
Where Eden, who's a warrior kid is making soap.
Got his own business.
He's 13 years old.
He's got his own business.
He's got product moving.
He's shipping stuff.
He's got credit card.
What is that thing called?
The credit card system.
Oh, like the, you know, the, you know,
I'm going to say the system running your 13 years old.
Got a point of sale system running.
Got production, got manufacturing happening.
Hey, it's soap.
Is it an iPhone?
No, but you know what?
What were you doing at 13 years old?
You weren't, you didn't have a manufacturing line set up.
I don't think.
So if you want to support kid a kid or your kid that's getting after it.
Irish Oaks Ranch.com and get yourself some soap so that you can.
Stay clean.
You.
YouTube videos.
Yes.
If you like watching YouTube videos, that's not good.
You probably don't need to watch YouTube videos.
They're distracting. They take a bunch of time.
If you do feel the need, you might as well watch this YouTube video of this podcast.
Or the smaller excerpts of this podcast that are clipped out.
Or you can even watch Echo's legit videos, which are videos that echo his
modified with CGI straight up straight up CG.
It's a generated generated.
Computer generated graphics.
That's what Echo's good at.
That's his thing.
Sure.
He's good at that and he's good at curls.
Well, he's not as good as I was before.
Yeah.
So subscribe to the YouTube channel and then you can watch all these videos.
Psychological warfare.
Don't forget about that.
Echo is just showing me a funny thing on the Graham.
The Graham of a girl that was lip syncing a psychological warfare video.
And we have to say it was awesome.
I'm going to try and find it and put it out there.
So we can see this girl's super fired up and good at lip syncing.
Oh yeah.
Yeah.
She knows like spot on spot on.
Like if you didn't know you or her, like you'd be like,
Bro, this girl's voice is weird.
You know, because if she has your voice away, because it looks really good.
Yeah.
She did a good job with that psychological warfare.
Little assistance getting through moments of weakness in your day.
I'll tell you what to do.
I'll tell you why you should do it.
And then you'll go do it.
Psychological warfare.
iTunes, Google Play and B3 platforms.
Check it out.
Give some.
Also, for legit fitness gear, while you're still with developing your home gym,
which we always are, I still am.
This is where you get your stuff.
Go to on it.com slash chocolate.
A lot of good stuff on there.
I just got a storm trooper.
Oh wait, I told you this last time.
Okay, so I made a mistake.
So storm troopers are not clones.
Storm troopers are like individual humans.
Yeah, that they raised from kids or whatever.
Clones are the clones from the Clone War.
Who came from Bobo Fett or Jango Fett.
One of them.
Once again, bro, you're out of my league.
Yeah.
I got scolded by my brother and various people.
For not knowing my show was.
Yeah, Charles jumped on you like you just.
He was literally listening to it in my presence.
I didn't know he was listening to it.
He got to it.
He paused.
He's like, bro.
And I'm like, you know, one of these kind of like you.
I was like, who's like that kind?
Yeah.
And I was like, yeah.
And he's like, just storm troopers aren't.
But, and he was, he was mad.
Nonetheless, I still got the storm trooper kettlebell,
which has nothing to do with any clones.
It's just dope.
And it's a kettlebell, which is good for, you know,
you're working on and stuff.
Anyway, I got it from on it.
That's where they have the best.
The best kettlebells, the best stuff.
Go on there.
Get something from there.
It's really good stuff on it.
I'll come slash.
Jockel.
We also have some books.
What kind of books?
Well, books for reading, I guess you might say.
Mike in the dragons.
How'd you like Mike in the dragons?
I'll stand me.
How often do you read it?
So, I read.
It's not on any kind of rotation,
but I've read it three times.
Two of the children, yeah.
And did they support?
Yeah.
So, you know what's funny?
They literally not only do they like reading it.
They like watching the video,
which, and I'm working on the whole book video.
Yeah.
So, when I work on it or whatever, they, you know,
I'm not always uninterrupted.
We'll say that.
So, they'll see me working on that.
Then I get constant interruption because they want to watch it.
They want to see it.
But I mean, I dig it because it is fun.
Yeah.
Really good book.
Mike in the dragons, the little lessons for kids in that book.
It's probably meant for a little bit younger age.
It's than the other kids books have written.
Way the warrior kid.
And way the warrior kid, too, marks mission.
And now we have way the warrior kid.
Three.
I'm trying to get that up for pre-order on Amazon.
The subtitle is where there's a will.
And some challenges presented to mark in this latest book.
Thankfully, Uncle Jake is around to guide him and show him the path.
Also, we got this when he goes for you to a field manual.
It explains all the people that ask what you work out, what did you eat,
what time did you sleep, all those questions?
They're all in there.
And then all the questions that are, how do you, how do you get out of bed?
How do you, when you want to procrastinate?
What do you do in your tired?
What do you do in your angry?
What do you do in your afraid?
All those questions are put all those questions in one big book.
It's called the Discipline.
It was read a field manual.
And it's a book that you can give to someone.
And they will be happy.
Sure.
And they will not.
They will get more from the book.
Then just a good read.
They'll get a little shift in their perspective in life.
And they might even hopefully get themselves head and down what we like to call the path.
The path of discipline.
I think you were right about that when you say that it's like the book that you sort of wish you had.
Go first.
Like when you, I would say maybe don't when I was like a teenager because I don't think I would have the capacity to write.
Yeah, to accept, you know, this kind of, but like young adulthood, maybe like 23, 23ish.
That would be like man.
And what's crazy is I've got people that are 54.
The one of the coolest things was I met a woman at the master.
She was like 55 years old.
And she was all excited.
She saw me and she's like, hey, and I was like, hey, we were working out.
And we got done with the workout.
Oh, you started in the gym or something?
No, no, no, no, in the, in the morning.
Oh, my goodness.
And she says to me, she says, you know why I'm here?
And I was said, actually, I have no idea why you're here or how you got here.
And she was in Costco or Walmart or Target and saw the discipline because freedom field manual.
And she just looked at it and said, I'm buying this.
I don't even know what it is.
I'm buying it.
God home, opened up Reddit.
Next day gets up 430 in the morning starts working out.
Like that's what we're talking about.
Zero.
This is a person that doesn't know anything about me about the podcast about any of the other books.
Just that one book picks up and says, this, I'm just going to get this.
And she was fired up.
She, she, she lost weight.
She's just crushing things.
So that's a good book to get for yourself.
It's a book that I read.
It keeps me on the path.
And if you want the audio version, it's on iTunes, Amazon, music, Google Play, other MP3 platforms.
There's obviously extreme ownership.
First book I wrote with my brother, Dave Babin.
It's about leadership.
It's about the leadership principles we learned in combat and how you can apply them.
And then I talked about that kind of leadership today because sometimes we can take any principle.
And we can go to foreign one direction or another.
That can cause major derailment of your organization, your team, your life.
So read the dichotomy of leadership.
So you can know and understand and recognize the pitfalls of going too far in one direction or the other.
On top of those two books, we got a little company called Ashilon Front.
It's a leadership consultancy.
And what we do is we solve your problems through leadership.
That's what we do.
Whatever problems you're having to organization,
those problems are leadership problems.
No matter what those problems are, they're leadership problems.
That's what they are.
And if you want to get those problems fixed, go to ashilonfront.com.
And we'll be in touch.
Also the master, which is a leadership conference 2019.
We got May 23, 24th in Chicago.
We got September 19th in 20th in Denver.
We got December 4th in 5th in Sydney.
All of our shows we've ever done have sold out.
These are going to sell out to if you want to come to them.
Go to extremotorship.com and work it out.
EF online just launched EF online in January.
If you can't come to the master, if you are living in a situation where you can't come to the master,
you can't afford the master, but you really want to get the information from the master.
Awesome.
You liked extreme ownership and you want to get more out of it.
Awesome. You like listening to podcast and you want to dig a little deeper.
Awesome. All those situations is why we made something called EF online.
Had a company.
18 months ago, guys said, hey, I want you to train everyone in my organization.
I said, yeah, do it. No problem.
And then I was like, wait a second.
How many people do you have?
87,000 globally.
Guess what? I was like, okay, let me.
Let me get back to you.
Because I humanly physically could not do that.
So I had to think about how we're going to scale this thing.
We talked to Lay from like, let's go.
Let's go digital.
And it's a little scary because in the Navy, we did like the digital training.
Sometimes online HR type training and it was a lame.
And so I was nervous about it.
But once we saw the new technology, which exists, which is awesome,
that's what we did.
So we spent the last year putting it together.
It's interactive.
You do role plays.
You put yourself in combat situations.
As a leader, you put yourself in business situations.
As a leader, you got frequently asked questions.
You got all kinds of choose your own adventure scenarios that are full.
And you get the briefings and explanations and details around the principles of combat leadership.
It's all in there.
So if you want to check that out,
it's at EF Online.com, EF Online.com,
and also we have EF Overwatch where we are finally taking combat proven leaders
from special operations and combat aviation.
And we're putting them into companies that need leaders that understand the principles that we talk about
in the books and on this podcast.
So EF Overwatch.com is where you go.
If you are either someone that's looking for talent or someone that's looking for a change of careers,
after you're done with your military career,
we're waiting for you there.
And if you want to talk to Echo and I, more,
if three hours wasn't enough,
if you need to tell us something else or you want to tell us something else or you want to ask us something else,
that's cool.
We are on the interwebs.
We are on Twitter.
We are on Instagram.
And we are on that page.
And Echo is at Echo Charles.
And I am at Jockel Willink.
And of course, thanks to everyone that is out there in uniform holding the line.
Our military personnel, police and law enforcement, firefighters,
paramedics, EMTs, correctional officers,
border patrols, all you first responders,
thanks for everything that you do to keep our safety and security intact.
And to everyone else, that's out there listening.
Remember what this book said.
And that's remember that real defeats other than death itself,
our psychological nature.
And that's the important contest in life itself,
So know who you're dealing with.
Know who you can count on.
Know your enemy and what his strength and weaknesses are.
And most important, know yourself.
Know your own nature.
So you can avoid the pitfalls that we are all susceptible to.
Know yourself so you can stand up in any situation and keep getting after it.
No matter what.
So until next time, this is echo and jacco out.